{\rtf1\ansi\deftab720\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f3\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fcharset1 Arial;}{\f5\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f6\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f7\fcharset1 Davidd;}}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red192\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green0\blue160;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue0;}
\deflang1033\pard\par\plain\par\ql \par\ql \lang1033\ltrch\f6\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf6\cb14\ 11\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ My Name is great among the nations\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  Our Sages stated (Men. 110a): For they call Him the God of 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ the gods. Even one who has an idol knows that He is the God Who is over all of them - and 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ everywhere they donate in My Name. Our Sages, however, explained: These are the Torah scholars 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ who are engaged in the laws of the Temple service everywhere, and likewise, every prayer of Israel 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ that they pray anywhere is to Me as a pure oblation. And so did Jonathan paraphrase: And every time 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ that you do My will, I accept your prayer, and My great Name is sanctified through you, and your 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ prayer is like a pure offering before Me. This is the explanation of the verse: Now why do you profane 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ My Name? Is it not great among the nations? As for Me, My love and My affection are upon you 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ wherever you pray before Me, and even in exile, [offerings are] burnt and offered up to My Name. 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ yea, a pure oblation\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  it is to Me, for through you My Name is feared among the nations. Yet you 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ profane Me and My Name.  
\par \par }

