{\rtf1\ansi\deftab720\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f3\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fcharset1 Arial;}{\f5\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f6\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f7\fcharset1 Davidd;}{\f50\fcharset1 Davidd;}}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red192\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green0\blue160;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue0;}
\deflang1033\pard\par\plain\par\ql \par\ql \lang1033\ltrch\f6\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf6\cb14\ 14\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ And now, the Lord has spoken\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  to bring the retribution near to them. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ In three years like the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ years of a hireling\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  Because of three years that they aided Sennacherib when he besieged Samaria, 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ and they aided him without compensation, as though they were his hirelings, the glory of Moab shall, 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ therefore, be debased among the rest of Sennacherib’s multitudes, for he swept them away into 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ captivity from the midst of that army and went away. And so it is related in Seder Olam (ch. 23): He 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ swept away the Ammonites and the Moabites who aided him when he besieged Samaria three years, to 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ fulfill what is said: “Three years like the years of a hireling, etc.” It can further be explained as 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ follows: “Three years like the years of a hireling.” Three years were decreed upon you as a reprieve, 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ but they will be exact, and the retribution will not be delayed further, as a hireling is exact with the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ years of his hire, to limit them. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ the glory of Moab shall be debased\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  in the eyes of all the great 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ multitude of Sennacherib. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ and the remnant\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  The survivors left to Moab. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ not many\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  Heb. \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ ìåÉà ëÌÇáÌÄéø\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ , an 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ expression of a large number. 
\par \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  
\par \par }

