{\rtf1\ansi\deftab720\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f3\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fcharset1 Arial;}{\f5\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f6\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f7\fcharset1 Davidd;}}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red192\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green0\blue160;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue0;}
\deflang1033\pard\par\plain\par\ql \par\ql \lang1033\ltrch\f6\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf6\cb14\ 16\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ It was standing\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  It was standing before me, but I did not recognize its appearance. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ a faint voice\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  I 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ heard the sound of faint words. Another explanation: I heard silence and a voice. I heard the voice of 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ the silence, but the silence I did not hear. “Silence” denotes angels reciting praise silently, as 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ [Jonathan] renders (I Kings 19:12): “a still small voice” as: a voice of those praising quietly. Moses 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ heard the silence [i.e., the voice of the angels praising]—from here we deduce that the early prophets 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ heard [lit. used] the voice, whereas the later ones heard an echo, like a man who hits with a hammer, 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ and the echo resounds far away. From here... far away. Here it is written: silence and a voice, whereas 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ concerning Elijah it is written: a still small voice; because Eliphaz heard only the silencing of the voice, 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ like a person who shouts into a barrel, that the voice of the barrel shouts toward him. That is an echo, 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ not the voice itself, but concerning Elijah if is written: a still, small voice, for he heard the voice itself] 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ And this is what it said.  
\par \par }

