{\rtf1\ansi\deftab720\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f3\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fcharset1 Arial;}{\f5\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f6\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f7\fcharset1 Davidd;}{\f50\fcharset1 Davidd;}}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red192\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green0\blue160;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue0;}
\deflang1033\pard\par\plain\par\ql \par\ql \lang1033\ltrch\f6\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf6\cb14\ 9\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ And he measured the hall of the gate eight cubits\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  the length of its protrusion into the Womenís 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Court. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ and its pillars\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  Meselins in Old French, posts, pillars. All the pillars mentioned in this account 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ were sort of round trees made of hewn stone, standing in the entrance, one to the right and one to the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ left, in place of posts, in place of doorposts, and so did Jonathan render (Isa. 1:4): ìAnd the doorposts 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ (‡«ÓÂ…˙‰«ÒƒÙÃƒÈÌ)\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  quakedî: \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ ‡≈ÈÏ¿Ó«˙ÒƒÙÃÈ»‡\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ . And they are called \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ ‡≈ÈÏƒÈÌ\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  because they were round like the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ terebinth and like the oak \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ (Â¿Î»‡«ÏÂ…Ô Î»‡≈Ï»‰)\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ . \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ and its pillars two cubits\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  in diameter. They were standing at 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ the end of the hall space, this one attached to the right wall and this one to the left wall. The result is 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ that the [total] protrusion of the hall and its pillars was ten cubits beyond the gate, into the Court 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ interior. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ and the hall of the gate from inside\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  Since the hall of the Israelitesí Court Gate protruded and 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ extended outward, as is delineated in this account, he explains concerning the hall of the Womenís 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Court Gate that it [in contrast] extended inward. The Womenís Court Gates were built in a straight 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ line with the gates of the Israelitesí Court, resulting in one hall facing another hall, which is a beautiful 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ thing.  
\par \par }

