{\rtf1\ansi\deftab720\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f3\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fcharset1 Arial;}{\f5\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f6\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f7\fcharset1 Davidd;}{\f50\fcharset1 Davidd;}}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red192\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green0\blue160;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue0;}
\deflang1033\pard\par\plain\par\ql \par\ql \lang1033\ltrch\f6\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf6\cb14\ 2\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ At the beginning of the Lord’s speaking to Hosea\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  Lit. in the beginning the Lord spoke to Hosea. 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Therefore, our Rabbis stated: The first of the four prophets who prophesied (in these days): Hosea, 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Isaiah, Amos, and Micah. [Parshandatha reads: in the days of Uzziah. Michah, in fact, is not 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ mentioned as having prophesized in the days of Uzziah, but only in the days of Jotham, Ahaz and 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Hezekiah; this will be explained further. In Pesachim 87a, we read: at that time] Isaiah prophesized [at 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ the time of the earthquake (Parshandatha)], as it is stated: (Isaiah 6:4) “And the doorposts quaked 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ etc.” And that was the day that Uzziah was stricken when he entered the Temple, for the ethereal 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ beings clamored to burn him, and the earthly beings to swallow him as the punishment of Korah’s 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ company, among which there were [some] swallowed up and [some] burned. Concerning Amos, it is 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ stated: (Amos 1:1) “Two years before the earthquake.” [Amos, accordingly, preceded Isaiah.] And 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Micah was the last of all of them, for it is said concerning him: (Micah 1:1) “In the days of Jotham, 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Ahaz, and Hezekiah,” and Uzziah is not mentioned in his regard (Cf. Pesachim 87a; Seder Olam, ch. 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ 20; Tanhuma Tzav 13; Rashi, Isaiah 6:4). But the simple meaning of the verse is: At the beginning of 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ the speech which the Holy One, blessed be He, spoke to Hosea, he said this to him. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ take yourself a 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ wife of harlotry\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  Our Rabbis said: This is to be explained according to its apparent meaning: Since he 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ said about Israel, “Exchange them for another nation,” as is explained in Pesachim at the beginning of 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ the chapter entitled \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ äàùä\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ , “The woman” (87a). \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ and children of harlotry\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  For she will bear you 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ children who will be of possible illegitimacy. And Jonathan paraphrased: Prophesy a prophecy about 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ the inhabitants of the cities of idolatry. The word \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ ÷Çç\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ , stated here is an expression of teaching, [derived 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ from \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ ìÆ÷Çç\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ , doctrine]. Teach them to repent. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ goes astray\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  Heb. \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ úÌÄæÀðÆä\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ . This is the present tense.  
\par \par }

