{\rtf1\ansi\deftab720\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f3\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fcharset1 Arial;}{\f5\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f6\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f7\fcharset1 Davidd;}{\f50\fcharset1 Davidd;}}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red192\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green0\blue160;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue0;}
\deflang1033\pard\par\plain\par\ql \par\ql \lang1033\ltrch\f5\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf5\cb13\ Chapter 5\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  
\par \lang1033\ltrch\f6\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf6\cb14\ 1\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ I have come to my garden\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  in the days of the dedication of the Temple. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ I have gathered\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  Heb. \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ àÈøÄéúÄé\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ , 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ I gathered, and it is Mishnaic language (Shev. 1:2): “as much space as is required by a picker \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ (àåÉøÈä)\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  and 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ his basket.” It is also Biblical language (Ps. 80:13): “and all wayfarers have plucked its fruit \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ (åÀàÈøåÌä) 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ .” This was stated in regard to the incense, for the princes burned private incense on the outside altar 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ and it was accepted. This is something that does not apply to later generations, and because of this, it 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ is stated: “I have eaten my sugar cane with my sugar.” There is honey that grows in canes, as it is 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ stated (I Sam. 14:27): “into the sugar canes \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ (áÌÀéÇòÀøÇú äÇãÀáÇùÌÑ)\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ ,” and \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ éÇòÀøÇú\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  is a term referring to canes [or 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ reeds], as it is stated (Exod. 2:3): “and she placed [it] in the reeds \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ (áÌÇñåÌó)\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ ,” [which Onkelos renders:] 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ åÌùÌÑÂåÌéúÈäÌ áÌÀéÇòÀøÈà\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ , and the sugar is sucked out and the wood is discarded. But I, out of great love, ate my 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ éÇòÇø\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  with my honey: I ate the cane with the sugar, the inedible with the edible, signifying the freewill 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ incense, and likewise, the he-goat sin offering that the princes sacrificed, although a sin offering is not 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ sacrificed as a freewill offering, but I accepted them on that day. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ I have drunk my wine\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  These are the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ libations. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ with my milk\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  They were sweeter and clearer than milk. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ Eat, friends\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  in the Tent of Meeting. 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ [These were] Aaron and his sons, and in the everlasting Temple, all the priests. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ drink, yea, drink 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ abundantly, beloved ones\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  These are the Israelites who ate the flesh of the peace offerings that they 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ offered up for the dedication of the altar.  
\par \par }

