{\rtf1\ansi\deftab720\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f3\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fcharset1 Arial;}{\f5\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f6\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f7\fcharset1 Davidd;}{\f50\fcharset1 Davidd;}}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red192\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green0\blue160;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue0;}
\deflang1033\pard\par\plain\par\ql \par\ql \lang1033\ltrch\f6\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf6\cb14\ 17\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ And the Lord shall smite with zaaraath\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  Heb. \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ åÀùÒÄôÌÇç\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ . This is an expression of zaraath [believed to 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ be a form of leprosy, see Commentary Digest II Kings 5:1], as (in Leviticus 13:6): “It is a mispachath 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ (îÄñÀôÌÇçÇú)\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ .” But since it is written with a ‘sin,’ our Sages expounded about it that they would become 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ enslaved maidservants \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ (ùÑÀôÈçåÉú)\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ , and some expounded it to mean that He smote them with many families 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ (îÄùÑÀôÌÈçåÉú)\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  of lice. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ shall pour out their “vessels”\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  Heb. \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ ôÌÈúÀäÅï éÀòÈøÆä\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ . Their vessels He shall pour out. This is 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ the Aramaic language, like “a black vessel” \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ ôÌÇúÀéÈà àåÌëÀîÈà\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  [in] (Pesachim 88a). They would say, Let Him 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ hurry and hasten His deed, to bring on the invaders. An officer will see me and take me. When the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ retribution came, Nebuchadnezzar’s officers took them for wives because of their beauty. Thereupon, 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ the Holy One, blessed be He, signaled to their ‘fountains,’ and blood of an issue flowed from them 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ profusely, as a person pours from one vessel to another. They became loathsome to them, and they 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ cast them to the ground from upon their chariots (Lamentations Rabbah 4:15). Jonathan, however, 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ rendered: He will remove their glory. \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ ôúäï\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  means wideness or greatness.  
\par \par }

