{\rtf1\ansi\deftab720\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f3\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fcharset1 Arial;}{\f5\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f6\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f7\fcharset1 Davidd;}{\f50\fcharset1 Davidd;}}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red192\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green0\blue160;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue0;}
\deflang1033\pard\par\plain\par\ql \par\ql \lang1033\ltrch\f6\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf6\cb14\ 2\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ I sleep\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  When I was confident and tranquil in the First Temple, I despaired of worshipping the Holy 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ One, blessed be He, as one who sleeps and slumbers. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ but my heart is awake\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  This is the Holy One, 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ blessed be He. So is this explained in the Pesikta (Rabbathi, ch. 15). \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ but my heart is awake\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  The Holy 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ One, blessed be He, Who is (Ps. 73:26): ìthe Rock of my heart and my portion,î is awake to guard me 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ and to favor me. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ Hark! My beloved is knocking\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  He causes His Shechinah to rest upon the prophets 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ and He admonishes through them by sending them betimes. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ Open for me\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  Do not cause Me to 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ withdraw from you. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ for my head is full of dew\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  A term referring to a man who comes at night, 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ knocking on the door of his beloved. He says thus, ìBecause of love for you, I have come at night at 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ the time of dew or rain,î and the allegory is that, ìMy head is full of dew because I am full of goodwill 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ and satisfaction with Abraham your father, whose deeds pleased Me like dew, and behold, I come to 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ you, loaded with blessings and the payment of reward for good deeds if you return to Me.î \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ my locks 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ with the drops of the night\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  In My hands there are also many categories of types of retribution, to 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ exact retribution from those who forsake Me and anger Me. Dew is an expression connoting pleasure. 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ the drops of the night\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  the rains of the night, which represent hardship and weariness. \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ ¯¿ÒƒÈÒ≈È\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  is the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Targum of \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ ¯¿·ƒÈ·ƒÈÌ\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ . (Deut. 32:2): ìand like drops \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ (Â¿Îƒ¯¿·ƒÈ·ƒÈÌ)\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  on the grass,î is translated as \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Â¿Îƒ¯¿ÒƒÈÒ≈È 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Ó«Ï¿˜Â…˘Ã—»‡\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ , drops of the last rain of the season. Locks are bunches of hair stuck together, called flozels, 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ curls, locks, and because Scripture adopted an expression of dew and rain, it adopted an expression of 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ a head and locks, for it is usual for dew and rain to stick to the hair and locks. Both ìdewî and ìdrops 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ of the nightî may also be explained favorably, viz. the reward for precepts that are easy to perform, 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ like dew, and the reward for precepts that are difficult as the hardship of the drops of the night.  
\par \par }

