{\rtf1\ansi\deftab720\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f3\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fcharset1 Arial;}{\f5\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f6\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f7\fcharset1 Davidd;}{\f50\fcharset1 Davidd;}}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red192\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green0\blue160;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue0;}
\deflang1033\pard\par\plain\par\ql \par\ql \lang1033\ltrch\f6\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf6\cb14\ 2\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ As a hart cries longingly for rivulets\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  Heb. \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ תערג\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ . The expression of \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ ערג\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  applies to the voice of the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ hart as the expression of \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ נהם\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ , roaring, applies to a lion; \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ שּׁקוק\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ , growling, to a bear; \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ געה\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ , lowing, to 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ oxen, and \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ צפצוף\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  chirping, to birds. [See Teshuvoth Dunash, p. 18.] Our Sages said: The hind is the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ most pious of the beasts. When the beasts are thirsty for water, they gather to her so that she should 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ raise her eyes to heaven. And what does she do? She digs a pit and thrusts her antlers into it and lows. 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Thereupon, the Holy One, blessed be He, has compassion on her and the deep brings up water for her. 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ As a hart cries longingly\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  “As a hind cries longingly” is not stated, nor, “As a hart cries longingly 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ (יערג)\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  [in the masculine].” Only, “As a hart cries longingly.” Scripture speaks of [both] a male and a 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ female. The male cries longingly for water, as we explained, and the female when she kneels to give 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ birth, [because] her womb is narrow. [When] she cries out, the Holy One, blessed be He, is 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ compassionate and prepares a serpent, which bites her on her birth canal, whereupon her womb opens. 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Menachem (p. 138) connects \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ תערג\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  with (Song 5:13): “His cheeks are like a bed of \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ (כערוגת)\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  spice,” but 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ his view is impossible. Dunash (p. 18) too explained it as the sound of the hart.  
\par \par }

