{\rtf1\ansi\deftab720\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f3\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fcharset1 Arial;}{\f5\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f6\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f7\fcharset1 Davidd;}{\f50\fcharset1 Davidd;}}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red192\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green0\blue160;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue0;}
\deflang1033\pard\par\plain\par\ql \par\ql \lang1033\ltrch\f6\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf6\cb14\ 22\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ And they ate and drank, etc. on that day, etc.\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  And if he would say, ìand they slaughtered 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ sacrifices to the Lord,î he would interrupt between the sacrifices [i.e., the peace offerings] and the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ burnt offerings with other matters, and in order not to interrupt, he did not state it immediately, but 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ waited until the end and stated, ì... and numerous sacrifices, and they ate and drank before the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Lord.î An example of this (Ex. 18:12): ìAnd Jethro, Mosesí father-in-law, took, etc.î \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ and they 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ crowned Solomon the son of David a second time\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  They had already crowned him once, as is written 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ in I Kings (1:39): ìAnd Zadok the priest took the horn, etc.î It is stated explicitly in \lang1033\ltrch\f3\fs30\b0\i\ul0\cf3\cb11\ Horayot\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  (11b): 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ "The king, the son of a king, is not anointed. Why then did they anoint Solomon? David commanded to 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ anoint him in order to remove [the false idea] from the heart of Adoniahís supporters to crown him." 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ and they anointed [him] to the Lord as ruler\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  - Heb. \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ »‚ƒÈ„\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ , from an expression of \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ ¿‚ƒÈ„ÂÃ\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ , the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f3\fs30\b0\i\ul0\cf3\cb11\ Targum\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  for (Ex. 12:21): ìpull,î as in (Num. 27:17): ì... who will go out before them and who will come 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ in before them and who will lead them out and who will bring them in.î \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ and Zadok as priest\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  because 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Ebiathar had anointed Adoniah.  
\par \par }

