{\rtf1\ansi\deftab720\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f3\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fcharset1 Arial;}{\f5\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f6\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f7\fcharset1 Davidd;}}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red192\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green0\blue160;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue0;}
\deflang1033\pard\par\plain\par\ql \par\ql \lang1033\ltrch\f6\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf6\cb14\ 15\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ Behold, you are comely, my beloved\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  I was ashamed of my sin, but He encouraged me with 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ appeasing words, saying, (Num. 14:20): “I have forgiven according to your words,” and you are most 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ fair, for your eyes are like doves; i.e., a bride whose eyes are ugly—her entire body requires 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ examination but [a bride] whose eyes are beautiful, her body requires no examination. (Song Rabbah 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ 4). The allegorical meaning is: I forgave you for your iniquity, and behold you are fair with [your 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ statement of] “Let us do,” and you are fair with [your statement of] “Let us hear”; fair with the deeds 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ of your forefathers and fair with your own deeds, because... \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ your eyes are like doves\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  There are 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ righteous among you who clung to Me like a dove, which, as soon as it recognizes its mate, does not 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ abandon it to mate with another. Similarly, (Exod. 32:26): “and all the sons of Levi gathered to 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ him,” and they did not err with the Calf, and moreover, behold you are fair with the work of the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Tabernacle, as it is said (ibid. 39:43): “and behold, they made it, etc. and Moses blessed them”; behold 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ he praised them for that.  
\par \par }

