{\rtf1\ansi\deftab720\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f3\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fcharset1 Arial;}{\f5\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f6\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f7\fcharset1 Davidd;}}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red192\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green0\blue160;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue0;}
\deflang1033\pard\par\plain\par\ql \par\ql \lang1033\ltrch\f5\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf5\cb13\ Nehemiah\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  
\par \lang1033\ltrch\f5\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf5\cb13\ Chapter 1\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  
\par \lang1033\ltrch\f6\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf6\cb14\ 1\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ The words of Nehemiah, etc.\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  Nehemiah wrote this book from here on. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ the twentieth year\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  This 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ refers to the twentieth year of King Darius, who is identical with Artaxerxes. In Tractate Rosh 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Hashanah (3a, b), we find that the phrase “the twentieth year” is mentioned twice using similar 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ wording [to teach us that it is speaking of the identical year]. It states below (2:1), “And it came to 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ pass in the month of Nissan of the twentieth year of Artaxerxes, etc.” The years were calculated from 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ the month of Tishrei. It says here, “And it was in the month of Kislev of the twentieth year, etc.” This 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ refers to the Kislev coming after Tishrei. Further down it says (2:1), “And it was in the month of 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Nissan of the twentieth year, etc.” This refers to the Nissan of the same year. And I cannot explain 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ that they calculated their years from the month of Nissan and that the incident mentioned below: “And 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ it was in the month of Nissan, etc.” occurred before this incident: “And it was in the month of Kislev, 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ etc.” It is true that events [in the Torah] are not necessarily recorded in chronological order. 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Nevertheless, the chapters indicate that the second chapter took place only because of the events of 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ the first chapter.  
\par \par }

