{\rtf1\ansi\deftab720\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f3\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fcharset1 Arial;}{\f5\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f6\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f7\fcharset1 Davidd;}{\f50\fcharset1 Davidd;}}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red192\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green0\blue160;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue0;}
\deflang1033\pard\par\plain\par\ql \par\ql \lang1033\ltrch\f6\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf6\cb14\ 23\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ He makes nations great and destroys them\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  Heb. \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Ó˘“‚È‡\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ . Some say, as He did to the Egyptians 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ when they overtook Israel before Baal-zephon (Exod. 14:9). They erred and said, ìYou should know 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ that He agreed with us, to drown them in the sea as we decreed, ëEvery son that is born you shall cast 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ into the riverí (ibid. 1:22), and [they also said] that their deity Baal-zephon is mighty, seeing that no 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ acts of judgment were performed upon it, as [they were upon) all the [other] gods of Egypt, and the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Omnipresent caused them to be misled in order to drown them. But this explanation is not the main 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ one, for were it so, it should have been dotted on the right, \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Ó«˘—¿‚ƒÈ‡\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  like \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ ˘—Â‚∆‰\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ , the misled. This is the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ main explanation: It means making great, an expression of \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ ˘“‚È‡ Î…Á\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ , having great strength. He makes 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ the nations great and causes them to prosper, and their heart becomes haughty with their prosperity, so 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ that [the fact] that they prosper is their destruction. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ He spreads out\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  He multiplies them to spread them 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ out over the earth and to cover them.  
\par \par }

