{\rtf1\ansi\deftab720\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f3\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fcharset1 Arial;}{\f5\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f6\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f7\fcharset1 Davidd;}{\f50\fcharset1 Davidd;}}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red192\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green0\blue160;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue0;}
\deflang1033\pard\par\plain\par\ql \par\ql \lang1033\ltrch\f6\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf6\cb14\ 24\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ A wild donkey\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  (salvatico in O.F.) wild, and some interpret it as poulain in O.F., a foal. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ accustomed 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ to the desert\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  Accustomed to be in the deserts, so she loves to wander. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ that snuffs up the wind\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  She 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ opens her mouth and snuffs up the wind, and he always returns to his place. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ her tendency like the sea 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ creatures, who can hinder her?\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  That trait of the sea creatures that she has, for also the sea creature 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ snuffs up the wind, as it is said: “They snuff up the wind like sea creatures” (infra 14:6). Who can 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ hinder her from that trait? So it is with you who can return you from your evil way? \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ her tendency like 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ a sea creature\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  Son dagronemant in O.F., dragon nature. Jonathan rendered it in this manner, \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ ëòøåãä\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ . 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Another explanation: It is an expression of wailing, comp. “moaning and wailing” \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ all who seek her 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ will not weary\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  For they will weary needlessly, for they will be unable to overtake her. What will her 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ end be? In her month, they will find her. There is one month in the year that she sleeps for the whole 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ month, and then she is captured. You, too, - one month (viz. Ab) was already prepared for you from 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ the days of the spies, when your forefathers established it as a time of vain weeping, therein, you will 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ be captured. \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ (úÌàðéä åàðéä)\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  (Lam. 2:5). Another explanation: (sa contree in French,) her country, 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ comp. Taanath Shiloh (Josh. 16:6).  
\par \par }

