{\rtf1\ansi\deftab720\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f3\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fcharset1 Arial;}{\f5\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f6\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f7\fcharset1 Davidd;}}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red192\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green0\blue160;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue0;}
\deflang1033\pard\par\plain\par\ql \par\ql \lang1033\ltrch\f6\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf6\cb14\ 4\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ I have no wrath\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  I have no mouth (var. excuse) to arouse My wrath on the nations, for Israel sins as 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ well, and the standard of justice accuses. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ would that I were thorns and briers against [the objects 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ of My] war\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  Against those with whom I wage war, namely Ishmael (ms. Esau). Would that I could visit 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ upon them and the standard of justice would not be able to protest, i.e., that Israel would repent, and 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ that would give Me thorns and briers against the enemies! I would tread upon the standard of justice 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ and I would visit upon them even more and additional punishment over their iniquity, and I would 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ ignite them together. Jonathan rendered it in this manner, as referring to the nations. Our Sages of 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ blessed memory explained it concerning Israel, and it refers back to the vineyard, as follows: \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ I have no 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ wrath\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  Despite all the angers with which this vineyard has provoked Me, I cannot pour out My wrath 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ to destroy it because of the oath I swore to their forefathers. If only it were like days long past! Were 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ it not for the oath, I would be thorns and briers and I would tread upon the vineyard, and I would 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ ignite it together.  
\par \par }

