{\rtf1\ansi\deftab720\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f3\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fcharset1 Arial;}{\f5\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f6\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f7\fcharset1 Davidd;}{\f50\fcharset1 Davidd;}}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red192\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green0\blue160;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue0;}
\deflang1033\pard\par\plain\par\ql \par\ql \lang1033\ltrch\f6\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf6\cb14\ 3\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ Before Ephraim, Benjamin, and Manasseh\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  when they need Your salvation. Although they are 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ wicked and undeserving, arouse Your might for them. But why? Because it is for You to save us. It is 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ fitting for You and it is incumbent upon You to save, whether guilty or innocent, as it was said to 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Moses in Egypt (Exod. 3:7): ìI have seen the affliction of My people.î Why is the word for seeing 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ repeated? I see that they are destined to provoke Me. Nevertheless, I have seen their affliction, 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ because of the oath that I swore to Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ Ephraim\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  in the war with Aram, when 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ he besieged Samaria and sent emissaries to Ahab (I Kings 20:3): ìYour silver and gold are mine; your 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ beautiful wives and children are mine.î \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ Manasseh\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  in the days of Jehoash the son of Jehoahaz, as it is 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ said (II Kings 13:4, 7): ìfor He saw Israelís oppression, etc., for the king of Aram had destroyed them 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ and made them like dust to trample.î And he beat him in war three times, as it is said (II Kings 13: 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ 25): ìJoash overcame him three times and recovered the cities of Israel.î \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ Benjamin\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  in the time of 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Ahasuerus, when Mordechai and Esther were in danger, and all Israel depended on them. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ and it is for 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ You to save us\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  Heb. \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ ÂÏÎ‰\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ . This is not an expression of going, but is like \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Ï¿Í»\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ , and so it is in the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Masorah of (Gen. 27:37): ìand for you \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ (ÂÏÎ‰)\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  then,î of Jacob; (II Sam. 18:22) ìsince for you \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ (ÂÏÎ‰) 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ there is no [reward] given for newsî; (Isa. 3:6), ìYou have \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ (ÏÎ‰)\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  a garment; be an officer to us, etc.î  
\par \par }

