{\rtf1\ansi\deftab720\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f3\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fcharset1 Arial;}{\f5\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f6\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f7\fcharset1 Davidd;}{\f50\fcharset1 Davidd;}}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red192\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green0\blue160;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue0;}
\deflang1033\pard\par\plain\par\ql \par\ql \lang1033\ltrch\f6\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf6\cb14\ 7\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ Because of the many things they did\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  Because they did many things, this retribution shall come 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ upon them, for they were unappreciative, for in many places Abraham stood up for Lot: when he left 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Haran, and when he went to Egypt, and in his merit he was sent out of the overturning of Sodom, and 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ he fought for him with Amraphel and his allies. For this, they should have repaid his descendants with 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ favors. Yet they taunted them when Sennacherib exiled the Reubenites and the Gadites, and the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Israelites were weeping and lamenting, and they would say to them, ‘Why are you lamenting? Aren’t 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ you going to your father’s house? Didn’t your father Abraham come from the other side of the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ river?’ And this is what is stated (Zephaniah 2:8): “I heard the insults of Moab and the jeers of the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ children of Ammon.” Moreover, they aided Sennacherib for three years when he besieged Samaria. 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ This is what is stated (infra 16:14): “In three years, like the years of a hireling, the glory of Moab shall 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ be debased.” \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ and their appointed territory\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  Heb. \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ åÌôÀ÷ËãÌÈúÈí\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ . Jonathan renders: and their boundaries 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ that are on the western sea, shall be taken. This is an expression of appointment. Comp. (Num. 4: 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ 16) “And the appointment of Eleazar the son of Aaron the priest.” The land over which they were 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ appointed, shall be taken from them. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ by the western sea, they shall take them\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  The enemies shall take 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ them, namely the boundaries. Alternatively, it may be interpreted as: and their visitation; i.e., their 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ visitation that I will bring upon them will be, that to the valley of the willows they shall carry them off. 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ The enemies shall exile them to the land of Babylon, which is the valley of the willows, as it is said 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ (Ps. 137:2): “On willows in its midst we hung our harps.”  
\par \par }

