{\rtf1\ansi\deftab720\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f3\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fcharset1 Arial;}{\f5\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f6\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f7\fcharset1 Davidd;}{\f50\fcharset1 Davidd;}}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red192\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green0\blue160;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue0;}
\deflang1033\pard\par\plain\par\ql \par\ql \lang1033\ltrch\f6\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf6\cb14\ 18\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ For a test\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  For a great test, with torments in many other forms of retribution, they were tested: the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ rod, pestilence, famine, and wild beasts. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ and what of it, if there be also a rod that disdainsHe will 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ not be\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  And what more will be on My son if also this disdainful rod comes upon him with the rest of 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ the test? \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ He will not be\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  My son will no longer be in the world. Jonathan also rendered it “they will not 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ exist,” but the rest of the verse he did not render in this [i.e., Rashi’s] way, but so it appears to me. I 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ heard many explanations for it, and I saw [others] in books of interpretations, but they did not appear 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ correct to me, and the ‘payat’ who composed for Chanukah [for the morning of the first 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Sabbath]: “That which disdained all wood stabbed the adulterer,” supports me, for he called the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ sword “that which disdained all wood.” Jonathan rendered in this manner: (verse 15) \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ àåÉ ðÈùÒÄéùÒ\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ . 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ because the tribe of the house of Judah and Benjamin rejoiced at the tribes of Israel when they were 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ exiled for worshipping idols, and they returned to stray after wooden images. He, too, explains \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ àåÉ 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ ðÈùÒÄéùÒ\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  as a rhetorical question. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ For a test\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  and what if also a rod that disdains He will not be 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ [Jonathan renders:] “For the prophets prophesied about them but they did not repent.” That is to say, 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ the matter is already determined that they will not repent. And what will be their end? \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ if also a 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ disdainful rod? He will not be\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  He [Jonathan] says: “And also the tribes of the house of Judah and 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Benjamin will be exiled, and with their evil deeds, they not [continue to] exist.” The kingdom of the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ tribe that disdained its fellow and scorned them and the evil that befell themshe too will not be and will 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ not endure. I shall further interpret it in another manner: \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ Or shall we rejoice, etc.\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  Or perhaps we 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ should rejoice, for you say to Me that the tribe of My son disdains all wood: The kings of Judah 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ disdain idolatry, as we find with Abijah, who said (II Chron. 13:8): “and with you are the golden 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ calves,” and Asa, Jehoshaphat, Hezekiah, and Josiah, who abolished all the idolatry in the world that 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ was under their control, and these [the remaining tribes] too will repent. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ Cry and wail\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  and do not 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ rejoice over this, for it will be upon My people. And why? \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ Because it is tested\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  The matter is already 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ tested and determined before Me that they will not repent properly. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ And what if even they disdain 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ wood, it will not be\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  And what if I wait longer? Even if they came to repent and to disdain idolatry, the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ matter would not last with them because they would hasten to revert to their wickedness. That is what 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ is said in Jeremiah (8:4): “if he repents, will he not return?”  
\par \par }

