{\rtf1\ansi\deftab720\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f3\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fcharset1 Arial;}{\f5\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f6\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f7\fcharset1 Davidd;}}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red192\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green0\blue160;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue0;}
\deflang1033\pard\par\plain\par\ql \par\ql \lang1033\ltrch\f6\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf6\cb14\ 13\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ The sons of Naphtali: Jahziel, etc.\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  And why was no more of his genealogy traced? This is the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ reason, as explained at the end of \lang1033\ltrch\f3\fs30\b0\i\ul0\cf3\cb11\ Megillah Yerushalmi\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ 0 (see Com. Dig. 8:29): Ezra found three books, 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ and each one of them contained part of the genealogy; that which he found he did not write, and of the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ sons of Naphtali he did not find any more. For this reason, the entire genealogy is traced with 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ omissions, because he skipped from one book to another and combined them. And that which he could 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ not write in this Book, he wrote in the Book of Ezra. You should know [that this is true] because it is 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ written close by (9:1): “And all Israel traced their genealogy, and behold they are written in the book 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ of the kings of Israel, and Judah was exiled to Babylon because of its treachery.” The meaning is that 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ if you wish to know the genealogy of the Ten Tribes, go to Halah and Habor, the Gozan River, and the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ cities of Media, because their annals were exiled with them, but as for Judah I found their records in 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Babylon, and that which I found, I wrote.  
\par \par }

