{\rtf1\ansi\deftab720\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f3\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fcharset1 Arial;}{\f5\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f6\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f7\fcharset1 Davidd;}{\f50\fcharset1 Davidd;}}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red192\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green0\blue160;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue0;}
\deflang1033\pard\par\plain\par\ql \par\ql \lang1033\ltrch\f6\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf6\cb14\ 18\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ He is light upon the face of the water\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  When the righteous men, Noah and Methuselah, would 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ rebuke them, they would say, “we are light [enough] to swim on the water, and we have papyrus and 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ light materials from which to make boats and to float.” \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ their portion in the earth is cursed; he does 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ not turn by the way of the vineyards\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  They would curse their portion in the earth, saying that they 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ would not turn by the way of the good, in the way of the righteous, who are lofty and dwell in the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ height or the world. Vineyards represent the righteous men and the leaders of the generation, as in 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ (Hosea 2:17), “And I will give her vineyards from there,” which Jonathan renders: her leaders. They 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ would curse their portion in the earth, saying that they would not turn in the way of the good; they 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ would swear that they would not turn their way. Another explanation: \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ תקלל חלקתם בארץ\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  Their portion in 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ the earth was spoiled, for they would destroy their seed in vain, as in (Gen. 6:12), “for all flesh had 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ corrupted its way.” \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ תקלל\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  is an expression of spoiling \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ (קלקול)\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ , as in (I Sam. 3:13), “for the iniquity [of 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ the matter] that he knew that his sons were bringing disgrace \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ (מקללים)\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  upon them.” Another 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ explanation: Their portion shall be cursed—the following generations will curse by them: He who 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ requited the generation of the Flood. So I heard. (Gen. Rabbah 30:2). Another explanation: \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ their 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ portion is cursed; he does not turn by the way of the vineyards\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  They would not accept reproof 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ from the good men. Another explanation: They were swift to sail in ships to kill and to plunder 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ property, but in the way of the land that was inhabited by humans and planted with vineyards they did 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ not care to go.  
\par \par }

