{\rtf1\ansi\deftab720\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f3\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fcharset1 Arial;}{\f5\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f6\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f7\fcharset1 Davidd;}}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red192\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green0\blue160;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue0;}
\deflang1033\pard\par\plain\par\ql \par\ql \lang1033\ltrch\f6\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf6\cb14\ 8\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ For the head of Aram\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  that is Damascus, and Jerusalem has nothing with them. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ and the head of 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ Damascus is Rezin\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  In Damascus he shall be head, but not in Jerusalem, and alsoas regards Pekah and 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ the ten tribesin another sixty-five years from the day it was decreed in the days of Amos (7:11): “And 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Israel shall surely be exiled from upon its land.” \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ Ephraim shall be broken, no longer to be a people 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Ephraim shall be shattered, no longer to be a people, for Sennacherib will exile them with their king, 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Hoshea son of Elah. Go out and calculate from Amos’ prophecy until the ten tribes were exiled, and 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ you will find them to be sixty-five years. Amos’ prophecy was two years before Uzziah was stricken, 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ as it is stated (Amos 1:1): “Two years before the earthquake.” And Uzziah was stricken for twenty- 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ five years, plus these two years, giving us a total of twenty-seven years. Add the sixteen years of 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Jotham and the sixteen years of Ahaz and six years of Hezekiah, as it is stated (II Kings 18:10, 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ 11): “And they captured it [at the end of three years]; in the sixth year of Hezekiah, which is the ninth 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ year of Hoshea, king of Israel...And the king of Assyria exiled Israel to Assyria.” Here are sixty-five 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ years. Now how do we know that the duration of Uzziah’s state as a confirmed metzora was twenty- 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ five years? For it is stated (ibid. 15:1): “In the twenty-seventh year of Jeroboam the king of Israel, 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Azariah the son of Amaziah the king of Judah, became king.” Is it possible to say this? Did not Uzziah 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ and Jeroboam reign simultaneously, according to the calculation you will find in the Book of Kings 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ (See Rashi II Kings 14:22)? Rather he reigned a plagued kingship. In the twenty-seventh year he was 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ stricken, and he reigned for fifty-two years. It is impossible, however, to count “and in another sixty- 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ five years” from the day that Isaiah said this prophecy, for he said it in the days of Ahaz, and they 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ were exiled in the sixth year of Hezekiah. In this manner it is explained in Seder Olam (ch. 28), that 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Scripture counted from the prophecy of Amos.  
\par \par }

