{\rtf1\ansi\deftab720\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f3\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fcharset1 Arial;}{\f5\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f6\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f7\fcharset1 Davidd;}}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red192\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green0\blue160;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue0;}
\deflang1033\pard\par\plain\par\ql \par\ql \lang1033\ltrch\f5\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf5\cb13\ Chapter 21\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  
\par \lang1033\ltrch\f6\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf6\cb14\ 1\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ The harsh prophecy of the western desert\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  This prophecy refers to Babylonia, as is delineated 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ therein. If you ask, Did he not already prophesy about it (supra 13): “On a tranquil mountain raise a 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ banner,” and the entire chapter? sometimes the prophecy comes into his mouth today in one manner, 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ and later in another manner. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ The harsh prophecy of the western desert\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  Jonathan paraphrases: A 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ harsh prophecy concerning the armies that come from the desert, as numerous as the waters of the sea. 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ like tempests in arid land, to pass\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  Like a tempest that whirls in an arid land, that raises much dust. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ to 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ pass\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  So will many camps pass to come upon Babylon. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ from the desert\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  they shall come to them (lit.. to 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ her). \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ from an awesome land\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  Jonathan renders: From a land where mighty deeds have been 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ performed. It is also possible to explain that it is a place of snakes and scorpions, as it is said (Deut. 8: 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ 15): “The great and awesome desert.”  
\par \par }

