{\rtf1\ansi\deftab720\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f3\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fcharset1 Arial;}{\f5\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f6\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f7\fcharset1 Davidd;}}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red192\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green0\blue160;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue0;}
\deflang1033\pard\par\plain\par\ql \par\ql \lang1033\ltrch\f5\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf5\cb13\ Chapter 7\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  
\par \lang1033\ltrch\f6\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf6\cb14\ 1\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ A [good] name is better than good oil\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  A good name is better for a person than good oil, and on the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ day of death the name is better than on the day of his birth. For this reason, a good name is compared 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ to good oil more than to other liquids, for oil—you put water into it, and it floats and rises, and is 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ recognizable, but other liquids—you put water into them, and they absorb it. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ A [good] name is better 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ than good oil\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  Good oil runs down, as it is said: (Ps. 133:2): “As the good oil on the head runs down 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ upon the beard.” A good name, however, goes up, as it is said: (Gen. 12:2): “and I will make your 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ name great.” Good oil is temporary, but a good name is eternal, as it is said: (Ps. 72:17): “May his 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ name be forever.” Good oil flows from the flask to the palace, and no more, but a good name goes to 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ the end of the world. Said Rabbi Judah the son of Rabbi Simon: We find that those who had good oil 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ entered the place of life and emerged burnt up. These are Nadab and Abihu, who were anointed with 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ the anointing oil. And we find those who possessed a good name, who entered a place of death and 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ emerged alive, viz. Hananiah, Mishael, and Azariah, who emerged from the fiery furnace. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ and the day 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ of death than the day of one’s birth\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  When Miriam was born, no one knew what she was. When she 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ died, however, the well disappeared, and so [it was with] Aaron with the pillar of cloud and Moses 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ with the manna.  
\par \par }

