{\rtf1\ansi\deftab720\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f3\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fcharset1 Arial;}{\f5\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f6\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f7\fcharset1 Davidd;}{\f50\fcharset1 Davidd;}}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red192\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green0\blue160;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue0;}
\deflang1033\pard\par\plain\par\ql \par\ql \lang1033\ltrch\f5\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf5\cb13\ Chapter 12\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  
\par \lang1033\ltrch\f6\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf6\cb14\ 3\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ implements for exile\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  A vessel from which to drink and a small earthen bowl in which to knead a 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ cake, as a sign for the house of Israel in Jerusalem to do likewise, so that they would not have to knead 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ dough in a hole on the ground with the gravel going into it. But they did not heed him, and they had to 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ do just that. This is what is written in the Book of Lamentations (3:16): ìIndeed, He made my teeth 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ grind on gravel.î In Midrash Lamentations. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ and go into exile day by day\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  Heb. \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ ÈÂ…Ó»Ì\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ , from day to day, 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ two or three days, behave like a man preparing his steps for exile, so that the people of the exile will 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ see and ask what you are doing, and you shall tell them that it symbolizes Zedekiah and his people [in 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Jerusalem], and these people will send their messengers and inform their brothers and relatives who 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ are there, according to everything they hear from your mouth. Likewise, every [occurrence of] \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ ÈÂ…Ó»Ì 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ in Scripture is an expression denoting ìday by day,î something that goes on [continually] for many 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ days. This I heard in the name of Rabbi Menachem, and his words are true. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ perhaps they will see 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Perhaps they will understand, apercevront in French, they will realize. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ for a rebellious house are they 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Therefore, it is still a ìperhaps.î  
\par \par }

