{\rtf1\ansi\deftab720\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f3\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fcharset1 Arial;}{\f5\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f6\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f7\fcharset1 Davidd;}}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red192\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green0\blue160;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue0;}
\deflang1033\pard\par\plain\par\ql \par\ql \lang1033\ltrch\f6\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf6\cb14\ 32\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ One who commits adultery with a woman\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  The three of them are combined in one statement. If a 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ thief commits a theft, he should not be despised as much as the adulterer. Why? Because he steals in 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ order to sate his hunger, and perhaps he has nothing to eat. And, when he is found, he can rectify his 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ sin with payment; at the most, he will pay sevenfold i.e., many times the double payment and even 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ fifty times for one. Some explain “sevenfold” as referring to one who steals an ox and his trappings 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ and slaughters it, who pays five cattle and double payment of the trappings (totalling seven). [31] \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ he 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ must give all he owns\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  lit. he must give all the property of his house. And, even if he must sell all he 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ owns because of this, he can nevertheless rectify it, and from the beginning he did it because of 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ hunger. But... \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ One who commits adultery with a woman is devoid of sense\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  since he does not do it 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ because of hunger. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ one who would destroy his soul—he will do it\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  The lewd act.  
\par \par }

