{\rtf1\ansi\deftab720\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f3\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fcharset1 Arial;}{\f5\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f6\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f7\fcharset1 Davidd;}}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red192\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green0\blue160;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue0;}
\deflang1033\pard\par\plain\par\ql \par\ql \lang1033\ltrch\f6\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf6\cb14\ 5\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ Your two breasts\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  which nourish you. This refers to Moses and Aaron \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ are like two fawns, the twins 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ of a gazelle\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  It is customary for a gazelle to bear twins so that they are both identical, this one to that 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ one. Another explanation: \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ Your two breasts\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  symbolize the Tablets. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ the twins of a gazelle\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  exactly 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ corresponding in one measure; the five commandments on this one (side of the Tablets, correspond to) 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ the five commandments on the other (side of the Tablets), each commandment corresponding to a 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ commandment. “I [am the Lord your God]” corresponds to “You shall not murder,” for the murderer 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ diminishes the semblance of the Holy One, blessed be He. “You shall not have [any other gods before 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Me]” corresponds to “You shall not commit adultery,” for one who commits idolatry is like an 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ adulterous woman, who takes strangers instead of her husband. “You shall not hear [the name of the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Lord your God in vain]” corresponds to “You shall not steal,” for one who steals will ultimately swear 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ falsely. “Remember [the Sabbath day to keep it holy]” corresponds to “You shall not bear [false 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ witness against your neighbor],” for one who profanes the Sabbath testifies falsely against his Creator, 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ saying that He did not rest on the Sabbath of Creation. “Honor [your father and mother]” corresponds 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ to “You shall not covet,” for one who covets is destined to beget a son who slights him and honors one 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ who is not his father. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ who graze\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  their flocks among the roses and lead them in a tranquil and straight 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ path.  
\par \par }

