{\rtf1\ansi\deftab720\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f3\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fcharset1 Arial;}{\f5\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f6\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f7\fcharset1 Davidd;}}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red192\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green0\blue160;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue0;}
\deflang1033\pard\par\plain\par\ql \par\ql \lang1033\ltrch\f5\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf5\cb13\ Chapter 22\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  
\par \lang1033\ltrch\f6\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf6\cb14\ 2\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ forty two years old\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  But in II Kings (8:26), Scripture says: “twenty-two years old.” How is this 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ possible? Moreover, according to this, the son was two years his father’s senior, [because Joram 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ ascended the throne at thirty-two and died eight years later, making him forty years old upon his 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ death,] but two years before Joram his father was born, this decree was issued upon the house of 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ David that it would end with the house of Ahab, and so Scripture states (below verse 7): “And from 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ God was Ahaziah’s downfall, etc.” and on the day that Asa took Omri’s daughter for Jehoshaphat his 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ son, this decree was issued. So it was taught in \lang1033\ltrch\f3\fs30\b0\i\ul0\cf3\cb11\ Seder Olam\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  (ch. 17) and in the \lang1033\ltrch\f3\fs30\b0\i\ul0\cf3\cb11\ Tosefta\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  of \lang1033\ltrch\f3\fs30\b0\i\ul0\cf3\cb11\ Sotah\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  (12:3). But 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ throughout Scripture we do not find that Jehoshaphat married Omri’s daughter, but I did find (above 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ 18:1): “and he allied himself in marriage with Ahab,” and perhaps that was his sister that he married, 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ and in the thirty first year of Asa he married her, as it is said in (I Kings 16:23): “And (sic) in the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ thirty-first year of Asa, etc. Omri reigned.” And when Asa married his daughter to Jehoshaphat his 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ son, Omri gained importance, and they slew Tibni. Figure from the thirty-first year of Asa until 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Ahaziah reigned, and you will find forty two years. Further, one verse states (II Kings 8:25): “In the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ twelfth year of Joram the son of Ahab, etc., Ahaziah the son of Joram reigned,” and another verse 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ states (ibid. 9:29): “And in the eleventh year of Joram son of Ahab, Ahaziah became king.” Perforce, 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ his father did not die until the twelfth year of Joram son of Ahab, because it is written (ibid. 8: 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ 16f.): “In the fifth year of Joram the son of Ahab, etc., Joram the son of Jehoshaphat became king, 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ etc., and he reigned eight years.” And that which Scripture states further, “In the eleventh year of 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Joram,” is because he reigned one year during his father’s lifetime since his father was smitten with 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ severe illnesses, as it is written (above 21:18.): “And after all this, the Lord plagued him, etc.” (22: 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ 1) “And the inhabitants of Jerusalem made Ahaziah, his youngest son, king,” for one year during his 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ father’s lifetime, and that is what is written: “ In the eleventh year of Joram.” And where Scripture 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ says: “In the twelfth year of Joram,” it means that after his father died, it was the twelfth year of 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Joram.  
\par \par }

