{\rtf1\ansi\deftab720\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f3\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fcharset1 Arial;}{\f5\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f6\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f7\fcharset1 Davidd;}{\f50\fcharset1 Davidd;}}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red192\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green0\blue160;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue0;}
\deflang1033\pard\par\plain\par\ql \par\ql \lang1033\ltrch\f6\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf6\cb14\ 11\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ For man’s anger will thank you\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  The anger of the wicked results in the creatures thanking the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Holy One, blessed be He. When they show their anger and the Holy One, blessed be He, punishes 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ them, everyone praises Him when they see that their anger is of no avail. As we find (Dan. 3:28) 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ concerning Nebuchadnezzar, when he cast Hananiah, Mishael, and Azariah into the fiery furnace, 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ what is said there? “Blessed be the God of Shadrach, etc.” And thereby... \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ it will prevent the residue 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ of wrath\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  Heb. \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ úçâø\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ . It will prevent and stop; the remaining wicked men are prevented and restrained 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ from showing their pride and their wrath. \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ úçâø\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  is an expression of restraint in the language of the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Mishnah (Chul. 18a): “The nick in a knife must be deep enough to catch \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ (úçâø)\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  the nail to disqualify it 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ from slaughtering].” I heard in the name of Rabbi Eleazar the Gaon, the son of Rabbi Isaac, who 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ brought this verse as testimony to that Mishnah (sic). It is also possible to interpret this according to its 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ usual meaning of an expression of girding, and can be explained as follows: It is fitting for You to gird 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Yourself with wrath and to enwrap Yourself with zeal, for strength and ability are Yours; the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ expression of “residue” is that since man’s wrath is of no account, the girding of all wrath is reserved 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ for You.  
\par \par }

