{\rtf1\ansi\deftab720\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f3\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fcharset1 Arial;}{\f5\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f6\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f7\fcharset1 Davidd;}{\f50\fcharset1 Davidd;}}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red192\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green0\blue160;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue0;}
\deflang1033\pard\par\plain\par\ql \par\ql \lang1033\ltrch\f6\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf6\cb14\ 14\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ Men of continuous employment\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  Men designed to continuously devote themselves to this. Israel 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ will separate out in order to [be able to] pass through the land and gather the scattered [corpses]. 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ burying with those who pass through\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  Burying with (Heb. \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ ‡∆˙\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ ) those who pass through; the corpses 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ (‡∆˙‰«Â…˙»¯ƒÈÌ)\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  that will block off and hinder the crossing. Those who crossed the ocean will bury them 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ for their own benefit. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ with those who pass through\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  Heb. \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ ‡∆˙‰«Ú…·¿¯ƒÈÌ\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ , with those who pass through. So I 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ heard, and so did Jonathan render. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ those who are left on the surface of the land\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  far from the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ crossing. Those who cross the sea will not occupy themselves with burying them. Those designated to 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ devote themselves to this purpose will bury them. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ at the end of seven months\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  the majority of the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ corpses visible to the eye will have been buried; from then on they will probe through the land in the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ hidden places, in the briars and among the thorns, and bury whomever find.  
\par \par }

