{\rtf1\ansi\deftab720\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f3\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fcharset1 Arial;}{\f5\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f6\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f7\fcharset1 Davidd;}{\f50\fcharset1 Davidd;}}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red192\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green0\blue160;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue0;}
\deflang1033\pard\par\plain\par\ql \par\ql \lang1033\ltrch\f6\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf6\cb14\ 3\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ his owner\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  Heb. \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ ÷ÉðÅäåÌ\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  [is] like \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ îÀúÇ÷ÌÀðåÉ\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ , the one who affixes him to the plowshare for plowing by day, 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ and since he has accustomed him to this, he knows him. The dull donkey, however, does not recognize 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ his master until he feeds him. Israel was not intelligent like the ox, to know, when I called him and 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ said, “Israel will be your name” (Gen. 35:10), and I informed them of several of My statutes, yet they 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ deserted Me, as is related in Ezekiel (20:39): “Let each one go and worship his idols.” Even after I 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ took them out of Egypt and fed them the manna and called them, “My people, the children of 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Israel,” they did not consider even as a donkey. Another explanation is: \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ An ox knows its owner\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  An ox 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ recognizes his owner so that his fear is upon him. He did not deviate from what I decreed upon him, by 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ saying, I will not plow today. Neither did a donkey say to his owner, I will not bear burdens today. 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Now, these [creatures,] who were created to serve you, and are not destined to receive reward if they 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ merit, or to be punished if they sin, did not change their manner, which I decreed upon them. Israel, 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ however, who, if they merit receive reward, and if they sin are punished. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ does not know\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  i.e., did not 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ want to know; they knew but trod with their heels, and my people did not take heart to consider.  
\par \par }

