{\rtf1\ansi\deftab720\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f3\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fcharset1 Arial;}{\f5\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f6\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f7\fcharset1 Davidd;}}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red192\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green0\blue160;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue0;}
\deflang1033\pard\par\plain\par\ql \par\ql \lang1033\ltrch\f6\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf6\cb14\ 3\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ The prince [I permit]; he is a prince, etc.\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  The prince I give permission. He is a prince, and is 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ esteemed, and it is not fitting for him to sit and eat with the rest of the priests in the chambers. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ he shall 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ sit therein\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  in its space. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ by way of the hall of the gate he shall come\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  When he enters the Inner Court 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ in order to enter this small gate to eat therein, he shall enter by way of the hall of the Court’s eastern 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ gate and leave the same way. Now since it states below (46:9), concerning: “But when the people of 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ the land come before the Lord on the Festivals, he who enters by way of, etc.” Scripture commanded 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ making the Court a shortcut since that entry was [made] for the sake of appearing [before God]. He 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ must therefore be well seen [i.e., throughout the entire Court]. It was necessary to specify here 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ concerning visits during the rest of the year that he should not make it a shortcut because this visit is 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ not for the sake of appearing, as is that of the Pilgrimage Festivals. This matter is corroborated many 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ more times in this account. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ The prince\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  The High Priest is a prince, and because of his importance he 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ will be permitted to eat the meat and bread of hallowed status in that gate, which is opened for him at 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ the time of his eating. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ by way of the hall of the gate he shall come\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  By way of the hall of the Eastern 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Gate he shall enter the Court and come up to that wicket to eat his bread therein. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ and by the same 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ way he shall leave\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  For this is not fit for a shortcut, as are the rest of the gates. Throughout the day, 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ when not during the time of the prince’s eating, it shall be closed.  
\par \par }

