{\rtf1\ansi\deftab720\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f3\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fcharset1 Arial;}{\f5\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f6\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f7\fcharset1 Davidd;}}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red192\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green0\blue160;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue0;}
\deflang1033\pard\par\plain\par\ql \par\ql \lang1033\ltrch\f6\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf6\cb14\ 2\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ I...observe the commandment\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  Therefore, I need to and I am prepared to observe the commandment 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ of the King of the Universe, which is the best of them all [i.e., better than all intrigues.] \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ and 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ concerning the oath of God\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  which we swore to Him on Horeb, to keep His commandments. [See Ecc. 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Rabbah.] Another explanation: I am prepared to observe the command of the kings of the nations who 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ rule us with head taxes and property taxes. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ and alongside the oath of God\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  provided that they do not 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ cause us to transgress the oath that we swore to the Omnipresent. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ And alongside\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  the oath of God, I 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ will keep the command of the kings. And so we find with Hananiah, Mishael and Azariah, who said to 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Nehuchadnezzar, (Dan. 9:16): “to you they say: O King Nebuchadnezzar (sic), we do not care to 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ answer you about this matter.” If he was king, why did they call him Nehuchadnezzar, and if 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Nebuchadnezzar, why did they call him king? However, this is what they said to him: To you we say 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ that you are king over us regarding work and regarding the head tax, but concerning your ordering us 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ to worship idols, you are [merely] Nebuchadnezzar, and not a king.  
\par \par }

