{\rtf1\ansi\deftab720\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f3\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fcharset1 Arial;}{\f5\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f6\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f7\fcharset1 Davidd;}}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red192\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green0\blue160;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue0;}
\deflang1033\pard\par\plain\par\ql \par\ql \lang1033\ltrch\f6\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf6\cb14\ 16\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ so that they should not come to a heap of twenty measures\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  So that you should not have a curse 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ sent into your works as [there has been] until now; for they would set up a heap from which twenty 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ seahs should be measured, and would find only ten. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ when one would come to the wine vat\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  That is the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ pit before the wine press, into which the wine flows. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ to draw off fifty press-measures\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  To draw out 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ from [the winevat] fifty measures with which they would measure wine from the winepresses, and the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ name [of those fifty measures] is purah. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ to draw off\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  to draw, as in (Isa. 30:14) “To scoop water from a 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ cistern”; and so (ibid. 47:2) “Draw off the path.” \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ and there would be twenty\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  Not that more of a curse 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ is sent into the wine than is sent into the grain, but a person [may] err in estimating the measure of the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ winevat because it is deep, while the heap [of grain] stands before him. In tractate Avoth d’Rabbi 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Nathan (4:4) we learned a reason why a small measure is not mentioned with regard to wine, while it is 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ mentioned with regard to grain, e.g.. to draw off twenty-five press measures and it was ten. This 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ teaches us that wine is an extra measure for the world, and when the wine suffers, it is a symptom of a 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ curse for the world. Since the wine must be plentiful, [the prophet] counts a larger number concerning 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ it.  
\par \par }

