{\rtf1\ansi\deftab720\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f3\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fcharset1 Arial;}{\f5\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f6\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f7\fcharset1 Davidd;}{\f50\fcharset1 Davidd;}}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red192\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green0\blue160;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue0;}
\deflang1033\pard\par\plain\par\ql \par\ql \lang1033\ltrch\f6\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf6\cb14\ 4\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ And the food of his table\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  fowl (I Kings 5:3) and kinds of delicacies that were served on his table in 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ abundance. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ and the seating of his servants\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  That each one recognized his place when they were 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ seated at the table, and of those who constantly saw the king’s face, no one was allowed to sit in his 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ neighbor’s place all the days of his life. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ and the station of his attendants\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  Each one would retain his 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ station and his position, and he would not change it the next day. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ and their attire\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  The attire that they 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ would wear tomorrow was not the same as, the attire that they wore today. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ and his cupbearers\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  most 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ of his cupbearers. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ and his ascent\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  the stairway by which he ascended from his palace to the Temple. 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ and she was breathless\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  because she thought that there was no wisdom in any of the kingdoms but in 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ her own country and like that of her wise men, because her country was in the east; they were wise 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ because they were stargazers, as is stated in the first chapter of Tractate \lang1033\ltrch\f3\fs30\b0\i\ul0\cf3\cb11\ Rosh Hashanah\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ , for Eretz Israel 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ is west of Babylon, and that is what is written (I Kings 5:10): “And Solomon’s wisdom was greater 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ than the wisdom of all the children of the east,” for they were in the east, as it is written (Gen. 11: 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ 2): “And it came to pass as they migrated from the east.” (I Kings 5:10) “And all the wisdom of 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Egypt,” for they were sorcerers, necromancers, and astrologers, and he was wise in divination \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ (èÇéÄéø)\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ . 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ So it is written in \lang1033\ltrch\f3\fs30\b0\i\ul0\cf3\cb11\ Pesikta (d’Rav Kahana\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  p. 33b). The word \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ (èÇéÄéø)\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  is Arabic, and in \lang1033\ltrch\f3\fs30\b0\i\ul0\cf3\cb11\ Leviticus Rabbah\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  (32:2), 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ in the chapter dealing with the son of the Egyptian (24:10): (Eccl. 10:20): “for a bird of the air shall 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ carry the voice.” This is the raven and refers to the art of bird divination \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ (èåÌéàÇøÄé)\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ .  
\par \par }

