{\rtf1\ansi\deftab720\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f3\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fcharset1 Arial;}{\f5\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f6\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f7\fcharset1 Davidd;}}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red192\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green0\blue160;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue0;}
\deflang1033\pard\par\plain\par\ql \par\ql \lang1033\ltrch\f6\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf6\cb14\ 14\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ The toil of Egypt etc.\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  I have informed how I will save My children from the hand of Babylon, for I 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ have aroused Cyrus for that purpose with My righteousness. I further inform you of the salvation from 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Sennacherib that will take place in the days of Hezekiah. When he returns (supra 36:36) from 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ marching upon Tirhaka, king of Cush, he will return to Jerusalem with all the valuable treasures of 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Cush, and Egypt, who will go to aid Cush, in his possession, and he will come with those spoils and fall 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ in Jerusalem, and Hezekiah and his people will plunder everything. So is it delineated in Seder Olam 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ (ch. 23) that it is stated concerning Sennacherib. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ men of stature\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  Tall people. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ over to you\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  Jerusalem. 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ they shall come over in chains\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  For Sennacherib brought them there, with neck-irons fastened to 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ them, and after his defeat, Hezekiah stood and released all those captives, who became converted to 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Judaism and recognized the kingdom of Heaven. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ Only in you is God\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  They will acknowledge that 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ there is no God but the Lord alone. ([Mss. and K’li Paz read:] but to Israel.)  
\par \par }

