{\rtf1\ansi\deftab720\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f3\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fcharset1 Arial;}{\f5\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f6\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f7\fcharset1 Davidd;}}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red192\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green0\blue160;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue0;}
\deflang1033\pard\par\plain\par\ql \par\ql \lang1033\ltrch\f6\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf6\cb14\ 5\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ the waters of the Shiloah that flow gently\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  [i.e., they rejected] the kingdom of the House of David, 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ which leads them gently, like the waters of the Shiloah that flow gently [Jonathan]. Shiloah is a spring, 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ known as Gihon and Shiloah. Here he prophesied concerning Shebna and his company who wanted to 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ rebel against Hezekiah, for they rejected him since they saw that he did not choose a regal table, but 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ would eat a litre of vegetables and engage in the Torah. Concerning him, it is stated (Prov. 13:25): “A 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ righteous man eats to satiate his body.” They saw Pekah son of Remaliah eat forty seahs of pigeons for 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ dessert. They would ridicule Hezekiah and say, Is this one fit to be a king? There is no king but Rezin 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ and the son of Remaliah. They were fit to rule in their lifetimes. And this is the meaning of: “And 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ rejoice in Rezin and the son of Remaliah.” The Holy One, blessed be He, said to them, Do you desire 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ eaters? I will bring many eaters upon you. “Behold the Lord brings upon them the mighty...waters of 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ the river” instead of the weak and gentle waters of the Shiloah.  
\par \par }

