{\rtf1\ansi\deftab720\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f3\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fcharset1 Arial;}{\f5\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f6\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f7\fcharset1 Davidd;}{\f50\fcharset1 Davidd;}}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red192\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green0\blue160;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue0;}
\deflang1033\pard\par\plain\par\ql \par\ql \lang1033\ltrch\f6\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf6\cb14\ 36\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ I shall blow upon you\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  Heb. \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ àÈôÌÄéçÈ\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ , an expression for blowing fire with a bellows. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ brutish men\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  Who 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ behave madly to ruin and to destroy. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ craftsmen of destruction\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  Artisans of murder. (Already many 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ days [have passed] since I explained this chapter as it is written above. Now I see from the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ peculiarities of its wording that the prophet is talking only about the sword.) “To place you upon the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ necks of the slain of the wicked,” “It has been returned to its sheath, etc.” “I shall blow upon 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ you.” This wording is appropriate only for metal, and so “craftsmen of destruction.” It seems to me 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ that this prophecy was stated about Nebuchadnezzar, and so it appears [from]: “prophesy and say: So 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ said the Lord God concerning the children of Ammon and concerning their taunts.” That is to say, 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ [their taunts] over Nebuchadnezzar [because of Nebuchadnezzar], for the children of Ammon were 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ taunting Israel because Nebuchadnezzar destroyed them. [33] \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ Sword, drawn sword\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  The sword of 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Nebuchadnezzar, which is double, to go out on the two waysagainst Jerusalem and against the children 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ of Ammon, as is delineated in the above chapterthus the retribution on the children of Ammon. [34] 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ When you prophesy for yourself, when you divine lies for yourself\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  You think that through your 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ divinations of vanity, futility, and lies, you will prosper, for your sword is placed upon the necks of the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ slain of the wicked, whose day has come by decree from before Me at the time of the payment at the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ time of their end. [35] \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ It has been returned to its sheath\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  That is to say, the time will come that the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ sword will return to its sheath, and the sword will receive its own retribution, at the hands of the kings 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ of Media, and then I shall blow upon you with the fire of My wrath, and you shall be delivered into the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ hands of mad blacksmiths, who are craftsmen of destruction, who will come to sharpen and to furbish 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ it as of yore, and they will destroy you. 
\par \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  
\par \par }

