{\rtf1\ansi\deftab720\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f3\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fcharset1 Arial;}{\f5\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f6\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f7\fcharset1 Davidd;}}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red192\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green0\blue160;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue0;}
\deflang1033\pard\par\plain\par\ql \par\ql \lang1033\ltrch\f6\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf6\cb14\ 7\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ For the wicked Athaliah—her sons had breached\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  He had to say this because Solomon had built it 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ as a new sturdy edifice. Only 125 years elapsed from the time that Solomon built it until the days of 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Joash and it was already breached. Had Athaliah and her sons not breached it, it would have continued 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ to endure, for more than 200 years elapsed from Joash to Josiah and they did not have to repair it until 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Josiah, although Joash did not make it new as it was originally. One hundred and twenty-five years 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ elapsed from the completion of the Temple until Joash. How so? Solomon reigned 40 years, and in the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ fourth year of his reign he commenced to build it. It took 7 years to build, totaling 10 years, leaving 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ him 30. Rehoboam reigned 17, totaling 47; Abijah 3, totaling 50; Asa 41, totaling 91; Jehoshaphat 25, 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ totaling 116; Jehoram 8, totaling 124, and Ahaziah one, totaling 125. And from Joash until Josiah were 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ 200 years. How so? Amaziah reigned 29 years, Uzziah 52, Jotham 16, Ahaz 16, Hezekiah 29, 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Manasseh 55, Amon 2, totaling 200 less 1, in addition to those years that Joash lived after he had 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ repaired the Temple. We find that they would not have had to repair the damage of the Temple had 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ not the wicked Athaliah and her sons breached it. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ For Athaliah, etc.\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  It is therefore no wonder that it 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ needed repairs so soon, and also no wonder that there was no hallowed silver and gold in the treasuries 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ of the House of the Lord, so that they had to make an announcement in Judah and Jerusalem to bring 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ the tax, for they had also used all the hallowed things of the House of the Lord for the baalim.  
\par \par }

