{\rtf1\ansi\deftab720\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f3\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fcharset1 Arial;}{\f5\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f6\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f7\fcharset1 Davidd;}{\f50\fcharset1 Davidd;}}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red192\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green0\blue160;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue0;}
\deflang1033\pard\par\plain\par\ql \par\ql \lang1033\ltrch\f6\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf6\cb14\ 23\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ He who admonishes man\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  for the sins he has committed and separates him from them. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ afterwards 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ will find more favor\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  After a time, he will find more favor in his eyes than one who speaks with 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ flattery. We find in Gen. Rabbah (44:5): “Wherever it says \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ àçøé\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ , it means only long after; \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ àçø\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ , it is soon 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ after. In Tanhuma, in the portion entitled “These are the words”: “He who admonishes man after 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Me”—this refers to Moses, who admonished Israel after the Holy One, blessed be He, who were 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ called “man,” as it is stated (Ezek. 34:31): “You are men,” and it stated concerning him (Ex. 33: 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ 17): “For you have found favor in My sight.” \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ more favor than he who speaks with flattery\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  This 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ refers to Balaam, who said fine things to Israel (Num. 24:5): “How goodly are your tents, O 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Jacob!” Moses announces (Deut. 11:16): “Beware lest your heart be deceived,” and Balaam 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ announces and flatters, “Do what your heart desires; He does not care: (Num. 23:19) ‘God is not a 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ man that He should lie,’ concerning the nations, but concerning you, ‘He says but He does not 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ do.’ “ And Solomon cries about both of them, (above 27:6): “Wounds of a lover are faithful, whereas 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ kisses of an enemy are burdensome.”  
\par \par }

