{\rtf1\ansi\deftab720\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f3\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fcharset1 Arial;}{\f5\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f6\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f7\fcharset1 Davidd;}}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red192\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green0\blue160;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue0;}
\deflang1033\pard\par\plain\par\ql \par\ql \lang1033\ltrch\f6\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf6\cb14\ 19\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ And there was no war, etc.\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  We learned in Seder Olam (ch. 16): “In the thirty-sixth year of Asa’s 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ kingdom, Baasha, the king of Israel, advanced.” Is it possible to say so? Had not Baasha already died 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ in the twenty-sixth year of Asa’s reign, as it is written (I Kings 16:8): “In the twenty-sixth year of Asa, 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ king of Judah, Elah the son of Baasha reigned” ? What then is the meaning of "In the thirty-sixth year 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ of Asa’s kingdom"? This corresponds to the thirty-six years from the time that Solomon married 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Pharaoh’s daughter, for so it is written (I Kings 2:39-46): “and two of Shimei’s slaves ran away... And 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ the king commanded Benaiah etc. and he smote (Sic) and fell upon him,” and immediately following 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ this Scripture writes about Solomon’s marriage to Pharaoh’s daughter, i.e., immediately after those 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ three years, and in the fourth year he married her, and he reigned forty years. We find that she was 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ with him thirty-six years, and corresponding to them were the thirty-six years that the decree was 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ issued upon the kings of Aram to be adversaries to Israel and finally to fall into the hand[s] of David’s 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ sons. Therefore, it is stated: “In the thirty-sixth year of Asa’s kingdom.” In the sixteenth year of his 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ reign, after Zerah the Cushite fell into his hand[s], that is the thirty-sixth year from Solomon’s death, 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ and in the sixteenth [year] of Asa, the king of Israel and the king of Aram made a treaty to advance 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ and provoke Asa. Asa sinned, as it is stated (16:2f.): “And Asa brought out silver and gold... 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ saying, ‘Make (sic) a treaty between me and you...’ And Ben Hadad heeded.” And the kings of Aram 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ did not cease being adversaries to Israel until Ahaz died, and in the third year of Ahaz, the king of 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Israel and the king of Aram made a treaty to advance and provoke Ahaz, and Ahaz had no merit that 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ they should fall into his hand[s]; so they both fell into the hand [s] of Tiglath-Pileser, the king of 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Assyria. 
\par \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  
\par \par }

