{\rtf1\ansi\deftab720\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f3\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fcharset1 Arial;}{\f5\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f6\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f7\fcharset1 Davidd;}{\f50\fcharset1 Davidd;}}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red192\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green0\blue160;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue0;}
\deflang1033\pard\par\plain\par\ql \par\ql \lang1033\ltrch\f5\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf5\cb13\ Chapter 40\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  
\par \lang1033\ltrch\f6\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf6\cb14\ 1\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ The word that came\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  What is stated at the end of the section (42:7): “And it was at the end of ten 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ days that the word of the Lord came etc.,” but he first wrote on account of what it was said to him. 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ And the Midrash Aggadah in Lamentations Rabbah (Proem 34): What was the word? “And return to 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Gedaliah.” He said to him: Either you go down with them and I will remain (?) here, or you remain 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ here and I will go down with them. He replied: If I go down with them, what will I help them? Rather, 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ let their Creator go down with them, for He will help them exceedingly. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ from Ramah\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  Where he went 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ into exile by himself with them. He would see a group [of youths] joined by a collar and would put his 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ neck between them, etc., as is stated in Pesikta of the Haftarah Divrei Yirmiyahu (p. 113). For it is 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ impossible to say that Nebuzaradan put him in chains since Nebuchadnezzar commanded him, “Do 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ him no harm” (above 39:12). \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ in fetters\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  Heb. \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ áàæ÷éí\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ , ceps in French, fetters.  
\par \par }

