{\rtf1\ansi\deftab720\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f3\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fcharset1 Arial;}{\f5\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f6\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f7\fcharset1 Davidd;}}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red192\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green0\blue160;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue0;}
\deflang1033\pard\par\plain\par\ql \par\ql \lang1033\ltrch\f6\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf6\cb14\ 41\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ And now, arise, O Lord\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  so as not to have to move as until now, from Shiloh to Nob and from Nob 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ to Gibeon. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ You and the Ark of Your might\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  that it will no longer move from now on. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ Your might 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Because of the following it is called “Your might”: because it performed wonders and mighty deeds 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ among the Philistines. And so it is written above (I Chron 16:8-36): “Give thanks to the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Lord,” "Search for the Lord and His might." Our Sages stated further in Tractate \lang1033\ltrch\f3\fs30\b0\i\ul0\cf3\cb11\ Abodah Zarah\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  24b (I 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Sam. 6:12): “And the cows sang.” What song did they recite? They said, (Ps. 98:1) “His right hand and 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ His holy arm have gained Him the victory.” \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ shall be attired with salvation\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  because they will not 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ wander from place to place, like (Isa. 11:5): “And righteousness shall be the girdle of his loins.” \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ and 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ Your pious ones shall rejoice with the goodness\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  with the abundance of goodness and tithes that will 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ be given to the Levites as reward for guarding the Ark and singing before it.  
\par \par }

