{\rtf1\ansi\deftab720\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f3\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fcharset1 Arial;}{\f5\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f6\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f7\fcharset1 Davidd;}}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red192\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green0\blue160;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue0;}
\deflang1033\pard\par\plain\par\ql \par\ql \lang1033\ltrch\f6\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf6\cb14\ 7\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ Are you not like the children of the Cushites to Me\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  -Why should I refrain from exacting 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ retribution upon you since you do not return to Me? Have you not come from the sons of Noah like 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ the other nations? Like the Cushites whom you resemble, as the matter is stated: (Jer. 13:22) “Will a 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Cushite change his skin…? So will you be able to improve.” \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ Did I not\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  -Was it not out of My goodness, 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ the beginning of My choosing you, My taking you out of the land of Egypt? Now what is that to Me? 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ The Philistines, too, I took out of Caphtor in such a manner when the Caphtorites came upon the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Avvites, as the matter is stated (Deut. 2:23) “And the Avvites who lived in open towns up to Gaza 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ etc.” They vanquished also the people of Gaza and the remaining lords of the Philistines under them, 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ and I took them out of their hands, and, even so, I did not make them My people. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ and Aram from Kir 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ -And so am I destined to bring Aram up from Kir, where Sennacherib will exile them, and, at the end 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ of days, when the kingdom of Assyria will terminate, they will go out.  
\par \par }

