{\rtf1\ansi\deftab720\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f3\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fcharset1 Arial;}{\f5\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f6\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f7\fcharset1 Davidd;}{\f50\fcharset1 Davidd;}}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red192\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green0\blue160;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue0;}
\deflang1033\pard\par\plain\par\ql \par\ql \lang1033\ltrch\f6\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf6\cb14\ 16\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ From the end of the earth\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  Jonathan paraphrases: From the Temple, which is at the edge of the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ land of Israel in the east, as we learned: (Maaser Sheni 5:2) [According to Lev. 19:23 25, the produce 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ of the vineyards produced during the first three years of its growth may neither be eaten nor may any 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ benefit be derived therefrom. The produce of the fourth year must be taken to Jerusalem and eaten 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ there. If this is inconvenient, the owner may redeem the produce and take the redemption money to 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Jerusalem, where he must buy food to eat with the sanctity of \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ ëÌÆøÆí øÀáÈòÄé\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ , the fourth year vineyard. The 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Rabbis decreed, however, that within a day’s journey from Jerusalem, all produce must be brought to 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Jerusalem, and the owner has no option to redeem it. The following Mishnah delineates the boundaries 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ of this area.] Lod from the west, and the Jordan from the east. It is found that from Jerusalem to the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Jordan is a day’s journey. But I say according to the simple meaning, that we heard from behind the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ heavenly Curtain that they are destined to raise their voices in song from the edge of the earth. Now 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ what are the songs? “The righteous shall be upraised.” There shall be a position and an upraising for 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ the righteous. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ And I said, I have my secret; I have my secret; woe is to me!\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  Woe is to me that these 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ two secrets have been revealed to me, the secret of retribution and the secret of salvation, for the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ salvation will be far off until enemies come, plunderers after plunderers, and marauders after 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ marauders (San. 94a). Five instances of treachery are stated here, corresponding to Babylon, Media, 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Persia, Greece, and Edom, who will enslave Israel before their redemption, and after these 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ plunderings.  
\par \par }

