{\rtf1\ansi\deftab720\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f3\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fcharset1 Arial;}{\f5\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f6\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f7\fcharset1 Davidd;}{\f50\fcharset1 Davidd;}}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red192\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green0\blue160;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue0;}
\deflang1033\pard\par\plain\par\ql \par\ql \lang1033\ltrch\f6\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf6\cb14\ 4\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ Come to Bethel etc.\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  -Like a man who says to a scoundrel, “Do [as you please] until your measure 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ [of sin] is full.” \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ and bring your sacrifices in the morning\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  -The priests of Baal say to them, "Idolatry 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ is liberal and does not impose stringent regulations upon you. The Torah states: (Exodus 34:25) ‘Shall 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ not stay overnight,’ but for idolatry, ‘And bring in the morning. ’ The Torah states concerning 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ sacrifices of lesser sanctity: (Lev. 19:6) ‘On the day of your sacrifice, it may be eaten, and on the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ morrow, ’ but idolatry, ‘after three days your tithes of cattle.’ The Torah states: (Lev. 2: 11) ‘Leaven... 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ you shall not offer up,’ but idolatry, (verse 5) ‘And offer up a thanksgiving offering of leaven. ’ The 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Torah states: (Deut. 23:22) ‘You shall not delay its payment,’ but idolatry, ‘and proclaim and publish 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ the free will offerings.’ Proclaim: ‘Whoever vowed and forgot, shall give it thought and 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ remember.’” (\lang1033\ltrch\f3\fs30\b0\i\ul0\cf3\cb11\ Yerushalemi, Avodah Zarah\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  1:1) And \lang1033\ltrch\f3\fs30\b0\i\ul0\cf3\cb11\ Jonathan\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  renders: And offer up from robbery. Cf. (Isa. 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ 1: 17) "Strengthen the robbed \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ (çÈîåÉõ)\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ ;” (Psalms 71:3) “From the hand of the unrighteous and the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ robbers \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ (åÌîÀ çÇîÌÅõ)\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ .”  
\par \par }

