{\rtf1\ansi\deftab720\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f3\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fcharset1 Arial;}{\f5\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f6\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f7\fcharset1 Davidd;}}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red192\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green0\blue160;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue0;}
\deflang1033\pard\par\plain\par\ql \par\ql \lang1033\ltrch\f6\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf6\cb14\ 9\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ shall be bewildered on the day of contention\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  When I come to debate with them, they will be 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ bewildered and will wonder, and they will have no answer in their mouth. Why? Because, among the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ tribes of Israel I made known a true Torah, and they transgressed it. [Another explanation:] \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ Ephraim 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ shall be bewildered etc. among the tribes of Israel I made known a true [judgment]\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  Said Rabbi 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Abahu in the name of Rabbi Yose bar Chanina. On the day that the Holy One, blessed be He, debates 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ with them in judgment, they will not be able to open their mouths, for among their tribes I made 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ known that the judgment is a true judgment. You find that, when the ten tribes were exiled, Benjamin 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ and Judah were not exiled, and the ten tribes were saying, Because they are the dwellers of His palace, 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ He did not exile them. There is favoritism in this matter. God forbid, there is no favoritism, but their 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ measure of sin was not yet full. As soon as they sinned, they were exiled. Then the ten tribes were 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ bewildered, without an answer in their mouths, and they said, “Behold God! Behold the Mighty One! 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Behold the Just One! For even to those who dwell in His house He shows no favoritism.” This is to 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ fulfill what is stated: Among the tribes of Israel I made known a true judgment. [from Lam. Rabbah, 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Proem 6]  
\par \par }

