{\rtf1\ansi\deftab720\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f3\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fcharset1 Arial;}{\f5\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f6\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f7\fcharset1 Davidd;}{\f50\fcharset1 Davidd;}}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red192\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green0\blue160;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue0;}
\deflang1033\pard\par\plain\par\ql \par\ql \lang1033\ltrch\f6\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf6\cb14\ 5\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ And he appointed judges\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  When the seer told him, “good things were found in you, for you 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ abolished the asheroth,” he approached the Sepher Torah [to see] whether he had abolished them 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ properly. He first saw that it was written (Deut. 12:2f.): “You shall utterly destroy...and you shall burn 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ their asherim with fire and cut down the images of their gods,” and he remembered that it is written in 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ ëÌÄé úÄùÒÈà\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  (Exod. 34:13): “And you shall break down their monuments, etc.” He wondered why he had 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ pleased the Lord by abolishing the asherim, the Jewish asherim, for [the Torah] only warned about 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ their asherim. He went back to [the Torah portion] (Deut. 16:18): “Judges and law enforcing 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ agents,” and found written (verse 21): “You shall not plant an asherah.” Then he rejoiced that he had 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ abolished them. He also saw written there: “Judges and law enforcing agents you shall appoint for 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ yourself,” and immediately “he appointed judges,” strong ones. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ in all the fortified cities of Judah, for 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ every city\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  He first appointed strong [judges] in all the fortified cities of Judah to coerce them [the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ people] and compel them to [accept] judgment. He later appointed judges who were not as strong for 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ the cities that were not fortified, for they [the inhabitants] were more afraid to rebel than those who 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ dwelt in the fortified cities, for they felt secure in their fortified cities.  
\par \par }

