{\rtf1\ansi\deftab720\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f3\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fcharset1 Arial;}{\f5\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f6\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f7\fcharset1 Davidd;}{\f50\fcharset1 Davidd;}}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red192\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green0\blue160;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue0;}
\deflang1033\pard\par\plain\par\ql \par\ql \lang1033\ltrch\f6\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf6\cb14\ 10\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ The Master created all\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  The Holy One, blessed be He, created all and sustains all, the fool like the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ wise man. We do not need any wisdom. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ and He hires a fool\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  Unlike a mortal, who hires only expert 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ workers, and who hires only those engaged in his work, the Holy One, blessed be He, creates all and 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ hires the fools and hires wayfarers, who are idle from all work. [According to] Midrash Aggadah, \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ ושכר 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ כסיל\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  is from an expression of (Gen. 8:2) “And the fountains of the deep were closed \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ (ויסכרו)\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ ,” and an 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ expression of (Isa. 19:10) “who make dams \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ (שכר)\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ .” The Holy One, blessed be He, closes up the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ constellation of Orion \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ (כסיל)\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ , which serves in the summer from Tishri on, and from then on, He closes 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ off all who traverse the sea from going into it until Passover. And in the words of Rabbi Moses, I saw: 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ רב מחולל כל\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ , A wealthy man has many activities, and if he hires a fool, it is as though he is hiring all 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ wayfarers who witness the deterioration of the work, to instruct how to rectify it and how he should 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ work. This is, however, an empty thing and has no connection here.  
\par \par }

