{\rtf1\ansi\deftab720\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f3\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fcharset1 Arial;}{\f5\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f6\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f7\fcharset1 Davidd;}{\f50\fcharset1 Davidd;}}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red192\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green0\blue160;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue0;}
\deflang1033\pard\par\plain\par\ql \par\ql \lang1033\ltrch\f6\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf6\cb14\ 7\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ O sword, awaken against My shepherd\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  Against the one whom I appointed over the flock of My 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ exile. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ and against the man who is associated with Me\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  whom I associated with Me to watch My 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ flocks as I do. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ Smite the shepherd\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  The king of the border of wickedness. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ and the flock shall scatter 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ The flock subjected to his rule; lit. pressed down under his hand. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ and I will return My hand\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  And I 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ will repeat My blows a second time. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ upon the little ones\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  Upon the rulers who are smaller than the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ kings. And Jonathan renders: \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ and the flock shall scatter\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  And the rulers shall scatter, and he renders: 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ upon the little ones\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  Their officers, who are second to them. And so did Jonathan render this verse as 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ referring to the nations: O sword, reveal yourself against the king and against the ruler, his colleague 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ who is like him, who resembles him, said the Lord of Hosts. Slay the king, and the rulers shall scatter. 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ This wording of the Targum does not apply to Israel, for we do not find in the Targum or in the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Scriptures [any words] but ìa king and princesî [when referring to Israel], and the Aramaic translation 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ thereof is \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ ¯«·¿¯¿·ƒÈÔ\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ , great ones.  
\par \par }

