{\rtf1\ansi\deftab720\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f3\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fcharset1 Arial;}{\f5\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f6\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f7\fcharset1 Davidd;}}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red192\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green0\blue160;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue0;}
\deflang1033\pard\par\plain\par\ql \par\ql \lang1033\ltrch\f6\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf6\cb14\ 2\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ Everything as to all\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  All take heart when an occurrence happens to someone, and they know that 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ ultimately everyone will receive his just deserts. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ one occurrence\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  And they know that the end of 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ everyone—whether righteous or wicked—is to die, and they all have one fate in this world. All this 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ they know, but nevertheless, they choose for themselves the good way, because they know that there 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ is a difference between them in the World to Come. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ for the righteous\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  such as Noah. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ and for the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ wicked\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  such as Pharaoh-Neco. This one became crippled, and that one became crippled. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ for the good 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ This is Moses. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ and for the pure\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  This is Aaron. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ and for the unclean\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  These are the Spies. These 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ [Moses and Aaron] spoke well of the Land of Israel, but those spoke derogatorily about it. These did 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ not enter the Land, and those did not enter the Land; hence, they have one fate. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ and for he who 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ sacrifices\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  This is Josiah, as it is said: “And Josiah offered a sacrifice.” \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ and for he who does not 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ sacrifice\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  This is Ahab, who caused Israel to refrain from performing the festival pilgrimages. This one 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ died from arrows, and that one died from arrows. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ like the good\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  This is David. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ so is the sinner\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  This is 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Nebuchadnezzar. This one built the Temple, and that one destroyed it. This one reigned forty years, 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ and that one reigned forty years. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ he who swears\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  This is Zedekiah, who swore falsely, as it is said (II 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Chron. 36:13): “And he also rebelled against King Nebuchadnezzar, who adjured him, etc.” \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ like him 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ who fears an oath\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  This is Samson, as it is said (Jud. 15:12): “And Samson said to them: Swear to me, 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ lest you strike me yourselves.” We learn that he was strict in his observance of an oath. 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ [Nevertheless], this one died after his eyes were plucked out, and that one died after his eyes were 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ plucked out. Therefore...  
\par \par }

