{\rtf1\ansi\deftab720\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f3\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fcharset1 Arial;}{\f5\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f6\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f7\fcharset1 Davidd;}{\f50\fcharset1 Davidd;}}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red192\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green0\blue160;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue0;}
\deflang1033\pard\par\plain\par\ql \par\ql \lang1033\ltrch\f5\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf5\cb13\ Chapter 60\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  
\par \lang1033\ltrch\f6\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf6\cb14\ 1\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ on shushan eduth, a michtam of David, to teach\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  (Addendum: Michtam is an expression of (Song 5: 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ 11), “as finest gold \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ (ëúí ôæ)\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ ,” a coveted thing. Our Sages, however, expounded this as referring to 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ David, who behaved as a humble \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ (îê)\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  and innocent man, even when he occupied the throne. Another 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Aggadah explains that his wound \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ (îëúå)\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  was perfect \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ (úîä)\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ , i.e., he was born circumcised (Sotah 10b). 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Michtam of David concerning the testimony of the Sanhedrin, who were compared to a rose \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ (ùåùï)\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ , as 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ it is stated (Song 7:3): “Your navel is like a round basin, etc., fenced in with roses,” when he required 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ that they teach him what to do. When he fought with Aram Naharaim and sent Joab against them, they 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ said to Joab, “Aren’t you of the sons of Jacob? Where is the oath that he swore to Laban, ‘this pile is a 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ witness’” (Gen. 31:52)? And he did not know what to answer. He came to David and said to 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ David, “This is what the Arameans said to me.” They went and asked the Sanhedrin, [who] replied to 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ them, “Did they not transgress the oath first, as it is stated (Num. 23:7): ‘From Aram has Balak king of 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Moab brought me’? Moreover, Cushan-Rishathaim was an Aramean.”  
\par \par }

