{\rtf1\ansi\deftab720\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f3\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fcharset1 Arial;}{\f5\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f6\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f7\fcharset1 Davidd;}{\f50\fcharset1 Davidd;}}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red192\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green0\blue160;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue0;}
\deflang1033\pard\par\plain\par\ql \par\ql \lang1033\ltrch\f6\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf6\cb14\ 16\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ And narrowing windows [were made] for the cells\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  These cells did not have doors facing the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ outside, but one open to the other; and so we find in Tractate Middoth (4:3) regarding the cells around 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ the Temple: “Each one had three entrances, one to the cell on the right, one to the cell on the left, and 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ one to the cell above.” But as for the cells in the Court which were only three cells, one beside the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ other, having no cells above them the middle ones had two entrances: one to the cell on the right and 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ one to the cell on the left; and the outer one, [standing] at the side of the gate, had two entrances: one 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ open to the middle one and one to the side of the gate, and it was likewise with the outer cell of the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ other second side, on both sides of the gate, as is written above (verse 13): “an entrance opposite an 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ entrance.” Now these [cells] had windows “ \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ ùÌÑÀ÷ËôÄéí àÂèËîÄéí\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  both open and shut” - [I Kings 6:4] - open 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ to the outside and “shut” to the inside, meaning narrow on the inside and wide on the outside to the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ east. Menahem (p. 180) interpreted \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ ùÌÑÀ÷ËôÄéí\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  as being related to the word for looking \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ (äÇùÌÑÀ÷ÈôÈä)\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ , as in 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ (Song 6:10) “Who is this who looks forth \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ (äÇğÄùÌÑÀ÷ÈôÈä)\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  ”; (Ps. 102:20) “For He has looked down \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ (äÄùÌÑÀ÷Äéó) 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ from His holy height.” He interprets [the word “lintel” in] (Exod. 12:22) “to the lintel \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ (àÆì äÇîÇùÌÑÀ÷åÉó) 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ ” also, as being related to the word for [over]looking. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ and for their doorposts [facing] toward 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ the “inward of the gate”\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  [i.e.], and to the edges of the entrances of the two cells nearest the gate on 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ this side and that side. For their entrances were [facing] towards the inner area of the gate: the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ entrance of the northern cell on the north of the gate, and the entrance of the southern cell on the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ south of the gate. The edges of the entrances on each side of the entrance of the cell are 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ the “posts.” And they had windows open to the intervening space - having the width of the gate - 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ which intervened between the cells. Now, he calls that space “inward of the gate,” for when someone 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ enters the area between the protrusions of the cells of here and there, it appears as though he has 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ entered the gate. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ and likewise for the halls\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  And so did the halls of every gate have windows. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ and 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ windows all around [facing] inward\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  in the wall, on the Court’s side, on the inside. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ and to the posts 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ were palm like crowns\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  Jonathan renders: \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ ëÌåÉúÇøÀúÌÈà\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ , crowns at the top of the pillar. They were made like 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ crowns, [each] resembling a palm tree, for in [the account about] Solomon’s Temple (I Kings 6:29) 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ they are translated by the Targum, \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ öåÌøÇúãÌÄ÷ÀìÄéï\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  (shapes of palm trees), pomels, crowns.  
\par \par }

