{\rtf1\ansi\deftab720\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f3\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fcharset1 Arial;}{\f5\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f6\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f7\fcharset1 Davidd;}{\f50\fcharset1 Davidd;}}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red192\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green0\blue160;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue0;}
\deflang1033\pard\par\plain\par\ql \par\ql \lang1033\ltrch\f6\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf6\cb14\ 15\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ And he measured the length of the structure before the fortress, which was behind it\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  [Heb. \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ ‡¬˘—∆¯ 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Ú«Ï ‡«Á¬¯∆È‰»\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ , lit. that was on its back.] Now he returns and measures the length of the House on the south, 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ as he measured it on the north. (I found:) And that is the meaning of ìbehind it,î i.e., backwards, for 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ he returned and measured by turning around, turning on his heels, toward the west. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ and its corners 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ [Heb. \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Â¿‡«˙Ãƒ˜∆È‰»‡\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ , and its extremities.] Jonathan renders: its corners; i.e., with the extended section 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ making up the depository for the knives, which was at the corners of the house. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ and the Inner 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ Sanctum and the Halls of the Court\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  The end of this verse is not related to its beginning, but is 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ connected to the following verse, and this is its explanation: And the Heichal as well as the Inner 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Sanctum - which is the Holy of Holies - as well as the Halls of the Court delineated above -(30: 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ 40) ìand the Halls round aboutî - all these had posts, narrowing windows, and ìattikimî surrounding 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ the three of them, including the ìgizrah,î which is the Heichal, (the Halls), and the Holy of Holies. The 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ three of them had the ìsippim,î posts for their entrances, and the three of them had narrowing 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ windows, and the three of them had ìattikim.î I do not know what they are. I say, however, that they 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ are a sort of square column protruding into the wall for reinforcement, they are called piliers in French, 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ pillars.  
\par \par }

