{\rtf1\ansi\deftab720\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f3\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fcharset1 Arial;}{\f5\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f6\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f7\fcharset1 Davidd;}}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red192\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green0\blue160;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue0;}
\deflang1033\pard\par\plain\par\ql \par\ql \lang1033\ltrch\f6\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf6\cb14\ 8\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ God spoke in His Sanctuary\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  that He would gather the exiles and his [David’s] seed would rule over 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ them. Another explanation: God spoke in His Sanctuary [saying] that I would be king over them. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ I will 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ exult\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  in His salvation. In another explanation, I found: God spoke in His Sanctuaryto help me, as it is 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ written (II Sam. 3:18): “For (sic) by the hand of My bondsman David shall I deliver My people 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Israel.” \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ I will divide a portion\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  I will divide for them a portion of the property of their enemies. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ and I 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ will measure the valley of Succoth\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  I do not know of what nation this Succoth is, and I do not know 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ where the Succoth is that Israel came to when they traveled from Rameses. In other commentaries I 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ found (this is not in all editions): I will divide ShechemI will restore to them the heritage of their father 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Jacob. Another explanation: \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ And I will measure the valley of Succoth\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  when I divide it for Israel. 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Shechem and Succoth were at the edge of the land of Canaan, as we find Jacob’s entry to the land 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ through Succoth and Shechem. Another explanation: \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ and I will measure the valley of Succoth 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Succoth is an expression of shapes and imaginations, as is written (II Kings 17:30): “Succoth- 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Benoth.” \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ I will measure\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  I measure their form, as is written (II Sam. 8:2): “two cord-lengths to put to 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ death and one full cord-length to keep alive.”  
\par \par }

