{\rtf1\ansi\deftab720\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f3\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fcharset1 Arial;}{\f5\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f6\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f7\fcharset1 Davidd;}}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red192\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green0\blue160;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue0;}
\deflang1033\pard\par\plain\par\ql \par\ql \lang1033\ltrch\f6\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf6\cb14\ 34\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ Give thanks to the Lord for He is good, for His loving-kindness exists forever\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  This verse (34) is 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ not a conclusion of the Psalm (96) but [a continuation] of Psalm (105): “Give thanks to the Lord, call 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ out in His Name.” The verse (35): “And say, save us, etc.” is from the Psalm (106). And this Psalm 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ (106) commences with this verse (in Chron.). Now is it appropriate here, “And say, etc. and save us 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ from the nations,” for when were they exiled in David’s time, that he should say, "and save us from 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ among the nations"? And this is the arrangement in Psalms. Psalm (105) commences: “Give thanks to 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ the Lord, call out in His name,” and it concludes only with “Blessed be the Lord God of Israel, 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ etc.” until “Amen! Hallelujah,” for it is all one topic, but because it is a long psalm, it was divided, and 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ it commences, "Give thanks to the Lord for He is good.” Similarly, Job, when he had to lengthen his 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ reply, he shortened it and divided it in two, and it says, (Job 29:1): “And Job again took up his 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ parable,” for in song, because of his ecstasies of joy, he could not speak at length; so he divided it in 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ two. And so, in the matter of lamentation, because of his intense pain he could not speak at length, and 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ he divided it in two, because both song and lamentation are uttered similarly. When Hannah came to 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ pray in the forecourt, Eli thought her to be a drunken woman, because he thought that she acted in 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ that manner because of wine, but she said, (I Sam. 1:15f.): “... and neither new wine nor old wine have 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ I drunk, etc., for out of the abundance of my complaint and my vexation....” From here we learn that 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ drunken people and those suffering from pain behave in the same manner.  
\par \par }

