{\rtf1\ansi\deftab720\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f3\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fcharset1 Arial;}{\f5\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f6\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f7\fcharset1 Davidd;}}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red192\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green0\blue160;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue0;}
\deflang1033\pard\par\plain\par\ql \par\ql \lang1033\ltrch\f5\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf5\cb13\ Chapter 9\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  
\par \lang1033\ltrch\f6\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf6\cb14\ 1\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ In the land of Hadrach\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  R’ Judah the son of Ilai expounded: This is the Messiah, who is sharp 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ against the nations and soft to Israel. R’ Yose the son of a Damascene mother said to him [to Judah the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ son of Ilai]: "Judah, our master, how long will you pervert the verses for us? I call heaven and earth to 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ testify for me, that I am from Damascus, and there is a place named Hadrach. [Rabbi Yose continued:] 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Now how do I explain: 'And Damascus is His resting place?’" That Jerusalem is destined to reach as 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ far as Damascus. ‘His resting place’ means only Jerusalem, as it is said: (Psalms 132:14) “ This is My 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ resting place to eternity.” He said to him [i.e. R’ Judah to R’ Yose]: “Now how do I explain (Jer. 30: 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ 18) 'And the city shall be built on its mound?’” He replied: “That it is not destined to move from its 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ place.” So was the baraitha taught in Sifre (Deut. 1:1). \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ for man’s eye shall be to the Lord\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  For on that 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ day man will turn to his Maker, and his eyes will see the Holy One, blessed be He, as [the prophet] 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ states above: Let us go with you. And they and their cities will join the cities of Israel. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ and all the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ tribes of Israel\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  They are regarded by God above all the nations. Similarly, Scripture states (I Kings 11: 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ 1): “King Solomon loved many foreign women and the daughter of Pharaoh.” Now, was the daughter 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ of Pharaoh not included in the generalization? But the daughter of Pharaoh was as dear to him as all of 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ them. Here, too, all the nations shall belong to the Holy One, blessed be He, and Israel is equal to all of 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ them.  
\par \par }

