{\rtf1\ansi\deftab720\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f3\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fcharset1 Arial;}{\f5\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f6\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f7\fcharset1 Davidd;}}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red192\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green0\blue160;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue0;}
\deflang1033\pard\par\plain\par\ql \par\ql \lang1033\ltrch\f6\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf6\cb14\ 9\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ Whoever loves silver will not be sated with silver\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  Whoever loves the commandments will not be 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ sated with them. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ and he who loves a multitude\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  of many commandments. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ without increase\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  and none 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ of them has a specific and recognizable commandment, such as the building of the Temple or a 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ synagogue, or a beautiful Sepher Torah. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ this too is vanity\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  So are these two verses expounded upon in 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ the Midrash, and there are other suitable interpretations, but I stated this one first because it is related 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ to the matter of (verse 7): “and there are higher ones over them,” which Scripture juxtaposed to them. 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Another explanation: \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ [8] And the loftiness of the earth is over everything\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  The reward for tilling the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ soil is esteemed over everything, for even the king must be subservient to the field; if the earth 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ produced fruits, he will eat, but if not, he dies from hunger. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ [9] Whoever loves silver will not be 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ sated with silver\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  He will not eat money, and he who loves a multitude—of money... \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ without grain 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ that he does not gather for himself produce—this too is vanity. Another explanation: \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ [8] And the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ loftiness of the land is in everything\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  The reward of Israel is in all words of Torah, both in Scripture, 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ in Mishnah, and in Gemara. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ the king is subservient to the field\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  If he is [well-versed] in Scripture and 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ in Mishnah, he must still be subservient to the one well-versed in Gemara, because he arranges before 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ him the practical decisions of prohibition and permissibility, uncleanness and cleanness, and laws of 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ jurisprudence. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ [9] Whoever loves silver\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  Whoever loves Torah, will not be sated with it. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ and he who 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ loves a multitude\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  of Torah. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ without grain\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  [He] who has [knowledge of] Scripture and Mishnah, but 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ has no [knowledge of] Gemara, what use does he have? All these are in Leviticus Rabbah (23:13).  
\par \par }

