{\rtf1\ansi\deftab720\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f3\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fcharset1 Arial;}{\f5\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f6\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f7\fcharset1 Davidd;}{\f50\fcharset1 Davidd;}}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red192\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green0\blue160;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue0;}
\deflang1033\pard\par\plain\par\ql \par\ql \lang1033\ltrch\f6\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf6\cb14\ 48\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ to the Hall of the Temple\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  the Hall of the Heichal. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ and he measured the pillars of the hall\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  [Heb. 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ ‡≈Ï ‡ÀÏ»Ì\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ ,] like \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ ‡∆Ï ‡ÀÏ»Ì\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ , the pillars of the hall; the thickness of the sides of the entrance (that look toward 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ the east absent in some editions) he measured from east to west. (And I, the copyist, found in other 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ commentaries as I copied.) \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ and the width of the gate, three cubits from here, etc.\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  That was the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ width of the northern pillar [going] into the hall space to the west. So too was the thickness of the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ southern pillar which went inside the Hall on the west. And although we learned that (Mid. 4:7): ìThe 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ wall of the Hall was five [cubits] and the Hall was eleven,î that of the future Temple will only be 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ three, but in the Hall of the Second Temple etc. - absent in some editions.) \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ five cubits\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  That of the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Second Temple was the same, for so we learned (Mid. 4:7): ìThe wall of the Hall was five [cubits] and 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ the Hall was eleven [cubits],î except that there were no [front wall] sides to the entrance on the north 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ and south in the Hall of the Second Temple. The width of the entrance was twenty cubits, just as the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ width of the Hall, and here it says, ìand the width of the gate: three cubits over here and three cubits 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ over there,î (and I do not know how to reconcile it) except [to say] that the width of the front sides of 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ the entrance was three cubits closing in on the space of the entrance here and three cubits there.  
\par \par }

