{\rtf1\ansi\deftab720\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f3\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fcharset1 Arial;}{\f5\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f6\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f7\fcharset1 Davidd;}{\f50\fcharset1 Davidd;}}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red192\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green0\blue160;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue0;}
\deflang1033\pard\par\plain\par\ql \par\ql \lang1033\ltrch\f6\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf6\cb14\ 2\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ A harsh prophecy\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  The prophet says, “This harsh prophecy concerning Babylon was told to 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ me.” \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ the traitor shall be betrayed\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  Jonathan renders: The robbers are robbed and the plunderers are 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ plundered. The Hebrew wording, according to the Targum, is to be explained thus: The traitor another 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ will come and betray him; and the plunderer another will come and plunder him. These are Persia and 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Media, who rob and plunder Babylon, who, until now plundered and robbed all the countries. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ march, 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ Elam\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  and come upon them (lit., her). \lang1033\ltrch\f5\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ besiege, O Media \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ (öåÌøÄé)\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ . I.e., besiege Babylon with a siege. 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Comp. (II Sam. 22:3) “God is my rock \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ (öåÌøÄé)\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ .” The accent is on the latter syllable, on 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ the “resh,” whereas, in this case, the accent is on the first syllable, like “rise \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ (÷åÌîÄé)\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ ,” “return \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ (ùÑåÌáÄé) 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ .” \lang1033\ltrch\f5\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ all sighs have I brought to an end \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ (àÇðÀçÈúÈä)\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ . (This is) not (spelled with a) “Mappiq heh,” (which 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ would mean “her sigh”) for this is like “all sighs in the world,” and it is an expression denoting a great 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ sigh of many people (sospiradic in O.F.). All sighs have I brought to an end, for the world was sighing 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ because of the yoke of the kingdom of Babylon; now I have brought it to an end.  
\par \par }

