{\rtf1\ansi\deftab720\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f3\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fcharset1 Arial;}{\f5\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f6\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f7\fcharset1 Davidd;}}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red192\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green0\blue160;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue0;}
\deflang1033\pard\par\plain\par\ql \par\ql \lang1033\ltrch\f6\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf6\cb14\ 11\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ And if they are ashamed\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  i.e., [if] they will be embarrassed and hide their faces because of all they 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ did, then let them know what I am destined to do for them. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ the form of the House\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  the perimeter of the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ House, from front to back, arranged on [all] four sides. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ and its scheme\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  the number of its cells and its 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ chambers. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ and all its forms\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  the cherubim, palm trees, posts, and halls. I found: “and all its forms” is 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ unclear. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ so that they keep\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  They will learn the matters of the measurements from your mouth so that 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ they will know how to do them at the time of the end. I found [the following]: The second aliyah [to 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ the Holy Land] through Ezra was merited to be like the first entry through Joshua, to come about by 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ force and through a miracle, as expounded (Ber. 4a, Exod. 15:16): “until... pass.” This Building would 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ then have been fit for them as of then, when they emerged from exile, to an everlasting redemption. 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ But [their] sin caused [this not to happen] for their repentance was not suitable, [i.e.,] they did not 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ resolve to stop sinning. [Therefore,] they emerged to freedom [only] through the sanction of Cyrus and 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ his son. Some say that in Babylon they stumbled regarding gentile women.  
\par \par }

