{\rtf1\ansi\deftab720\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f3\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fcharset1 Arial;}{\f5\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f6\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f7\fcharset1 Davidd;}}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red192\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green0\blue160;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue0;}
\deflang1033\pard\par\plain\par\ql \par\ql \lang1033\ltrch\f6\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf6\cb14\ 9\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ The width of the wall of the cell to the outside\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  The wall of the cells adjoining the Court; i.e., the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ western wall. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ was five cubits\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  And we also learned in Tractate Middoth (4:7), that the wall was five 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ cubits [wide]. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ and what was left clear\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  And a clear area was left at the northern and southern corners 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ that adjoined the east and the west. For the cells did not encompass the entire House, and the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ entrances of the cells in the eastern corners led to that cleared area - as is stated in this section: “And 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ the entrance of the cell to the clear space”. The cells had no entrances either to the side of the Court 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ or to the side of the Heichal, but to those in the northeastern [corner] and the southeastern corner, had 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ an the entrance in the wall which opened to the cleared off area. And by that entrance they would 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ enter it, and from it, into the second cell, and from the second into the third, and so on all around, as 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ we learned in Tractate Middoth (4:3): “and an area left over.” Another explanation: \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ left clear\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  Those 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ on the inside of the cells that were toward the side of the House was left clear; i.e., a clear area was 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ left over between the cells and the House, and in the area were the cells’ entrances, as is delineated in 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ this section: “And the entrance of the cell was toward the clear place,” and its width was five cubits, 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ as [Scripture] says: “and the width of the clear area was five cubits,” as I explained above, [i.e.,] that 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ the cells will not be close to the House at all, and there will be a space of five cubits between them and 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ the House. And so did Jonathan render: and an area left over. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ for the structure of cells that belonged 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ to the House\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  Opposite the space of the width of the cells in the corner. The words “round 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ about,” written about the clear area, are not referring to [all] four corners, but mean “here and 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ there,” i.e., south and north: the southeastern and the northeastern corners.  
\par \par }

