{\rtf1\ansi\deftab720\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f3\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fcharset1 Arial;}{\f5\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f6\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f7\fcharset1 Davidd;}{\f50\fcharset1 Davidd;}}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red192\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green0\blue160;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue0;}
\deflang1033\pard\par\plain\par\ql \par\ql \lang1033\ltrch\f6\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf6\cb14\ 6\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ but my beloved had hidden and was gone\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  Heb. \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ çÈîÇ÷\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ , was hidden and concealed from me, like 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ (below 7:2): “the curves \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ (çÂîåÌ÷Åé)\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  of your thighs,” the hidden places of your thighs, because the thigh 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ is hidden. [Also] (Jer. 31:21): “How long will you hide \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ (úÄúÀçÇîÌÈ÷Äé)\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ ,” will you hide and cover yourself 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ because of the shame that you betrayed Me? \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ my soul went out when he spoke\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  for he said, “I will not 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ come into your house because at first you did not wish to open.” \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ The watchmen who patrol the city 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ found me\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  and apprehend the thieves who prowl at night. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ they smote me and wounded me\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  They 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ inflicted a wound upon me. Every [instance of] \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ ôÆöÇò\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  is an expression of a wound [inflicted] by a 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ weapon, navredure in Old French, a wound. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ my jewelry\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  Heb. \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ øÀãÄéãÄé\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ . My jewelry that was hammered 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ and beaten, upon me, and the entire episode is an expression of a wife of one’s youth who bewails the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ husband of her youth and searches for him. And this is the allegorical meaning: \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ [4] My beloved 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ stretched forth his hand from the hole\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  when I said, “I have bathed my feet,” and I will not open for 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ You, and I will not repent of the idolatry that I have chosen. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ stretched forth his hand\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  and 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ demonstrated His vengeance in the days of Ahaz, and He brought upon him the army of the king of 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Aram (II Chron. 28:5f): “and they smote him and captured from him a great captivity, etc. And Pekah 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ the son of Remaliah slew in Judah one hundred and twenty thousand in one day.” \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ and my insides 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ stirred because of him\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  Hezekiah his son came and repented with all his heart to seek the Holy One, 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ blessed be He, and his entire generation was wholehearted; there never arose a generation in Israel like 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ them, as is delineated in [the chapter entitled] \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ çÅìÆ÷\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  (Sanh. 94b): They searched from Dan to Beersheba 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ and did not find an ignoramus, from Gebeth to Antioch, and did not find a man or woman who was not 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ well versed in the laws of ritual contamination and purity, and this is the meaning of, “my hands 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ dripped with myrrh, etc.” It is also stated regarding Josiah (II Kings 23:25): “Now before him there 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ was no king like him, etc.,” for he saw the retribution that had come upon Manasseh and upon Amon, 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ to fulfill the words, “he stretched forth his hand from the hole, and my insides stirred because of 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ him.” \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ [6] I opened for my beloved, but my beloved had hidden and was gone\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  He did not nullify His 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ decree, as it is stated regarding Hezekiah (Isa. 39:6f): “Behold a time shall come when everything in 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ your palace, etc. shall be carried off to Babylonia. And...[some] of your sons...whom you shall 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ beget.” These are Daniel, Hananiah, Mishael and Azariah, and also [as it is stated] concerning Josiah, 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ through Huldah the prophetess (II Kings 22:16): “Behold, I bring calamity upon this place and upon its 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ inhabitants, etc.” And Scripture states: (ibid. 23:25ff): “Now, before him there was no king like him... 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Nevertheless, the Lord did not turn back from His great wrath, for His wrath was kindled against 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Judah, because of all the provocations that Manasseh had provoked Him. And the Lord said: I will 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ remove Judah too from before Me as I have removed Israel, and I will reject this city.” \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ my soul went 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ out when he spoke\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  It left me when He spoke this word. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ I sought him, but found him not\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  Now if you 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ ask: Was not Jeremiah standing and prophesying during the days of Jehoiakim and Zedekiah, (Mal. 3: 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ 7): “Return to Me, and I will return to you”? This was not to nullify the decree, but to mitigate the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ punishment and to prepare their kingdom for the time when they would return from the exile, to plant 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ them without being uprooted and to build it without being demolished.  
\par \par }

