{\rtf1\ansi\deftab720\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f3\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fcharset1 Arial;}{\f5\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f6\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f7\fcharset1 Davidd;}{\f50\fcharset1 Davidd;}}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red192\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green0\blue160;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue0;}
\deflang1033\pard\par\plain\par\ql \par\ql \lang1033\ltrch\f6\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf6\cb14\ 4\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ and behold, a tempest was coming from the north\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  That is the Chariot of the throne of the glory of 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ the Shechinah, as it is described in this chapter (verse 28). Since it came with fury to destroy Israel, it 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ is therefore likened to a tempest and a [storm] cloud. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ coming from the north\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  It was returning from 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ the land of the Chaldeans, which is in the north. As it is said (Jer. 1:14): ìFrom the north the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ misfortune will break forth.î And why did it go there [first]? In order to subjugate the whole world to 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Nebuchadnezzar, to prevent the nations from saying that He delivered His children into the hands of a 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ lowly nation, for the Chaldeans were [considered] a lowly nation. As it is said (Isa. 23:13): ìthis 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ people has never been.î So did our Sages expound on this verse in tractate Chagigah (13b). \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ with a 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ brightness around it\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  Surrounding the cloud on the outside, implying that Israel was destined to be 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ redeemed from there [Babylonia]. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ it was like the color of the chashmal\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  ìChashmalî is an angel 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ bearing that name, and he [Ezekiel] saw [something] like the appearance of its color in the midst of the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ fire. And so did our Sages say: There was an incident involving a child who was expounding on the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ account of the Chariot. He perceived the meaning of ìchashmal,î [whereupon] fire emanated from the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ chashmal and consumed him. They said further that the word itself is a combination: When they 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ asked, ìWhat is chashmal?î replied Rav Judah, ìLiving beings \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ (Á∆ÈÂ…˙)\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  of fire \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ (‡≈˘)\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  that speak \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ (ÓƒÓ«Ï¿ÏÂ…˙) 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ .î In a Baraitha we learned: Sometimes silent \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ (Á»˘Ã—Â…˙)\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ , sometimes speaking \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ (ÓƒÓ«Ï¿ÏÂ…˙)\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  when the speech 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ emanates from the mouth of the Holy One, blessed be He, they remain silent. When the speech does 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ not emanate from the mouth of the Holy One, blessed be He, they speak; that is, they laud and praise 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ the Lord (Chag. 13). [Possibly, ìchashmalî is the name of the color resembling the color of fire, for he 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ said, ìChashmal from the midst of the fire,î and he said (verse 27): ìthe color of chashmal, the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ appearance of fire within it found about, from the appearance of his loins and above.î And, he says in 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ the second vision (8:2): ìand from his loins and above was like the appearance of a splendor, like the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ color of chashmal.î An addendum that I heard.] And from the midst of it, [i.e.,] that fire, I saw 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ something like the color of chashmal that appeared from the midst of the fire. But we do not know 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ what it is, and the midrash that our Sages expounded on it, [defining ìchashmalî as] living beings of 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ fire that speak, does not seem to me to the context.  
\par \par }

