{\rtf1\ansi\deftab720\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f3\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fcharset1 Arial;}{\f5\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f6\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f7\fcharset1 Davidd;}{\f50\fcharset1 Davidd;}}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red192\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green0\blue160;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue0;}
\deflang1033\pard\par\plain\par\ql \par\ql \lang1033\ltrch\f6\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf6\cb14\ 16\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ Your eyes saw my unformed body\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  From the time that You created the world, Your eyes saw all 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ the forms of the coming generations. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ My unformed body\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  Heb. \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ âìîé\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ . My splendor and the pattern of 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ my form, before I was born and before I came into the world, Your eyes saw. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ and on Your book they 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ were all written\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  And all the creatures of the world, like me, like them, even all of them, before they 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ were created, were together revealed before You. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ days have been formed and one of them\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  All man’s 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ deeds and the end of the days are revealed before You as if they were already formed, although not 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ one of them was in existence, and not one was yet in the world. These are the wonders of God’s works 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ and the way of His might, that future events are revealed to Him before they come. And so, Scripture 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ says (Jer. 1:5): “When I had not yet formed you in the womb, etc.” \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ and on Your book, they were all 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ written\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  The book of the generations of man, which You showed to Adam. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ written\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  lit. all of them will 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ be written, like \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ ðëúáåÌ\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ . \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ days were formed without one of them\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  Ultimately, many days were destined 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ to be created, but not one of them was yet created. According to the masoretic text, in which \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ ìà\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  is 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ written, this is its explanation. And according to the readingfor it is read \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ ìå\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  this is its explanation: days 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ have been formedHe showed the days that were destined to be created, and for His share, He chose 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ one of them, viz. the Sabbath day. Another explanation: This is the Day of Atonement, for forgiveness.  
\par \par }

