{\rtf1\ansi\deftab720\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f3\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fcharset1 Arial;}{\f5\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f6\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f7\fcharset1 Davidd;}{\f50\fcharset1 Davidd;}}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red192\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green0\blue160;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue0;}
\deflang1033\pard\par\plain\par\ql \par\ql \lang1033\ltrch\f6\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf6\cb14\ 11\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ O Lord, Your hand has been taken away\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  I have seen many Aggadic Midrashim on the verses of 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ the above section and the following, but they are not appropriate, either because of the grammatical 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ forms of the language or because of the context of the verses. I had to explain it according to its order. 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ There is an Aggadic Midrash that states that the prophet begs that the nations not see the bounty of the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Holy One, blessed be He, when He lavishes good upon Israel. The Holy One, blessed be He, 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ replied, ìIt is better that they see and be ashamed,î (Eliyahu Zuta ch. 21). (The Midrash explains the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ verse as follows: O Lord, take away Your hand, so that they see not. I.e., the prophet begs that God 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ conceal His might from the nations that they see it not. Thereupon, God replies, ìLet them see and be 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ ashamed...î) This does not fit with the language, however, since it does not say, ìRaise Your 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ hand.î Moreover, this word differs from all similar words. Every \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ È»„ ¯»Ó»‰\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  is accented on the final 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ syllable, whereas this one is accented on the first syllable. Comp. (Gen. 37:7) ìBehold, my sheaf rose 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ (˜»Ó»‰)\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ .î Comp. also (Ruth 1:9) ìBehold your sister in law has returned \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ (˘—»·»‰)\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ .î All of these are in the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ past tense. This too is to be explained: The hand of Your might has been taken away from upon Your 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ enemies so that they see not Your might for they have seen that their way has prospered. I beg of You, 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ let them see and be ashamed. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ the envy of a people\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  Let them see the bounty that You shall lavish upon 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Your people, Even they themselves shall see the judgment of Your vengeance, that the fire (of envy) 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ shall consume them.  
\par \par }

