{\rtf1\ansi\deftab720\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f3\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fcharset1 Arial;}{\f5\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f6\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f7\fcharset1 Davidd;}{\f50\fcharset1 Davidd;}}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red192\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green0\blue160;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue0;}
\deflang1033\pard\par\plain\par\ql \par\ql \lang1033\ltrch\f6\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf6\cb14\ 13\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ And this second thing you do\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  The first matter concerning which I reproved you is, indeed, very 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ grave, for one to have married a gentile woman even if he was unmarried; but this second matter is 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ graver, for those [who were] married to Israelite women and married gentile women in addition to 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ them. [The men did this] because the Israelite women became black from hunger and from exile, and 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ became repugnant to them. [Such a man] would, therefore, sit her [his Israelite wife] in his house, 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ bound in living widowhood, and the gentile wife would be the chief wife. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ to cover the altar of the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ Lord with tears\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  For the [Israelite wives] would come before the altar of the Lord and weep before it, 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ saying, “ What have we sinned? And what wrong have our husbands found in us? Behold! We are 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ before the altar to be tested as suspected adulteresses.” \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ such that he will no longer turn, etc.\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  So that 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ you are not fit for Me to turn to your offering or take any thing willingly from your hand. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ and sighing 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ an expression of sighing, that a person feels pain in his heart; demonisement in Old French, groaning. 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ The source of all of them is (Ezek. 24:17), “Be silent in groaning" But if \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ àÃðÈ÷Èä\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  is an expression of a 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ cry, where is the silence? The Targum of this word is \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ ãÄîÀãÇðÀ÷Äéï\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ , and so did Jonathan translate (ibid. 30: 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ 43) “And you shall sigh before yourselves \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ åúÀãÇðÀ÷åÌï\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ .” [This is] an expression of a person who roars and 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ feels pain within himself.  
\par \par }

