{\rtf1\ansi \deff0\deflang1024 \paperw12240 \paperh15840 \gutter0 \widowctrl\ftnbj \sectd \linex0\endnhere
{\fonttbl\f1\fbidi\fcharset177 David;\f2\fnil Times New Roman;}
\margt1440 \margb1440 \margl1800 \margr1800 \pgnstart1
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}
{\stylesheet{\s0 \ltrpar \qs \fi0 \li0 \ri0 \sl000 \sb0 \sa0 NormalParL;}
{\s1 \rtlpar \qs \fi0 \li0 \ri0 \sl000 \sb0 \sa0 NormalParH;}}
\ltrpar\ql\rtlch\af1\afs24\ltrch\f2\fs24 {\highlight7 <ENG>}{\highlight7 @pa}{\highlight7 <HEB>}{\highlight7 <FT12>}{\highlight7 <SZ12>}{\highlight7 <XS1>}{\highlight7 <SL0>}{\highlight7 <ADD0>}{\highlight7 <ENG>}{\highlight7 <XS1>}{\highlight7 <SL0>}{\highlight7 <ADD0>}{\highlight7 <SP0.24>}{\highlight7 <MIN0.75>}{\highlight7 <MAX2>}{\highlight7 <LS0>}{\highlight7 <SUP0>}{\highlight7 <IL12>}{\highlight7 <IR12>}{\highlight7 @p1}{\highlight7 <*1>}{\highlight7 @pa}Pirkei Avos{\highlight7 <QC>}\par
{\highlight7 @ky}{\highlight7 <IL0>}{\highlight7 <IR0>}All Israel have a share in the World to Come, as it is said: “And all your people 
will be righteous; they will inherit the land forever; they are My plants, the 
work of My hands, wherein I glory” [{\highlight7 <IT>}Isaiah{\highlight7 <ITC>} 60:21].{\highlight7 <QL>}\par
{\highlight7 @pc}{\highlight7 <IL12>}{\highlight7 <IR12>}{\highlight7 @p1}{\highlight7 <*2>}{\highlight7 @pc}Chapter 1{\highlight7 <QC>}\par
{\highlight7 @p1}{\highlight7 <IL0>}{\highlight7 <IR0>}1:1{\highlight7 <LT>}{\highlight7 <EM>}Moses received the Torah at Sinai and transmitted it to Joshua, and 
Joshua to the Elders, and the Elders to the Prophets, and the Prophets handed 
it down to the Members of the Great Assembly. They [the latter] stated three 
principles: Be deliberate in judgment; educate many disciples; and set 
protective bounds for the Torah.{\highlight7 <QL>}\par
{\highlight7 @p2}{\highlight7 <*3>}1:2{\highlight7 <LT>}{\highlight7 <EM>}Shimon the Righteous was one of the last survivors of the Great Assem 
bly. He used to say: The world is based upon three principles: On the Torah; on 
serving God; and on acts of loving kindness.{\highlight7 <QL>}\par
{\highlight7 @p2}{\highlight7 <*4>}1:3{\highlight7 <LT>}{\highlight7 <EM>}Antignos of Socho received the tradition from Shimon the Righteous. He 
used to say: Be not like the servants who serve the master on the condition of 
receiving reward. Rather, be as servants who serve the master without the 
condition of receiving reward; And let the fear of Heaven be upon you.{\highlight7 <QL>}\par
{\highlight7 @p2}{\highlight7 <*5>}1:4{\highlight7 <LT>}{\highlight7 <EM>}Yos{\u233\'3f} ben Yoezer of Tzeredah and Yos{\u233\'3f} ben Yochanan of Jerusalem 
received the tradition from them. Yos{\u233\'3f} ben Yoezer of Tzeredah says: Let your 
house be a meeting place for the Sages and sit in the dust of their feet, and 
drink in their words with thirst.{\highlight7 <QL>}\par
{\highlight7 @p2}{\highlight7 <*6>}1:5{\highlight7 <LT>}{\highlight7 <EM>}Yos{\u233\'3f} ben Yochanan of Jerusalem says: Let your house be open wide and 
let the poor be like members of your household, and do not engage in too 
much conversation with women. This has been said even with regard to one’s 
own wife, how much more does this apply to his neighbor’s wife. Accordingly, 
the Sages said: whoever engages in too much conversation with women, brings 
evil upon himself, neglects the study of Torah and in the end will inherit 
Gehennom.{\highlight7 <QL>}\par
{\highlight7 @p2}{\highlight7 <*7>}1:6{\highlight7 <LT>}{\highlight7 <EM>}Yehoshua ben Perachya and Nittai the Arbelite received the tradition 
from them. Yehoshua ben Perachya says: Provide yourself with a teacher, 
acquire for yourself a companion and judge all men meritoriously.{\highlight7 <QL>}\par
{\highlight7 @p2}{\highlight7 <*8>}1:7{\highlight7 <LT>}{\highlight7 <EM>}Nittai the Arbelite says: Keep far from an evil neighbor, do not associate 
with a wicked man, and do not abandon the belief in retribution.{\highlight7 <QL>}\par
{\highlight7 @p2}{\highlight7 <*9>}1:8{\highlight7 <LT>}{\highlight7 <EM>}Yehudah ben Tabbai and Shimon ben Shatach received the tradition 
from them. Yehudah ben Tabbai says: Do not [if you are a judge] play the part 
of a counselor; when the parties in a lawsuit stand before you, regard them as 
wicked; but when they leave, regard them as innocent once they have accepted 
the judgment.{\highlight7 <QL>}\par
{\highlight7 @p2}{\highlight7 <*10>}1:9{\highlight7 <LT>}{\highlight7 <EM>}Shimon ben Shatach says: Examine the witnesses thoroughly, and be 
careful with your words lest through them they learn to lie.{\highlight7 <QL>}\par
{\highlight7 @p2}{\highlight7 <*11>}1:10{\highlight7 <LT>}{\highlight7 <EM>}Shemayah and Avtalyon received the tradition from them. Shemayah 
says: Love work, scorn the holding of public office, and do not seek to become 
intimate with the authorities.{\highlight7 <QL>}\par
{\highlight7 @p2}{\highlight7 <*12>}1:11{\highlight7 <LT>}{\highlight7 <EM>}Avtalyon says: Scholars, be careful with your words, for you may incur 
the penalty of Galuth (exile) and be exiled to a place of evil waters, and the 
disciples who follow you will drink of them and die, and thus the Name of 
Heaven would be profaned.{\highlight7 <QL>}\par
{\highlight7 @p2}{\highlight7 <*13>}1:12{\highlight7 <LT>}{\highlight7 <EM>}Hillel and Shammai received the tradition from them. Hillel says: Be of 
the disciples of Aaron, loving peace and pursuing peace, loving your fellow 
men, and drawing them near to the Torah.{\highlight7 <QL>}\par
{\highlight7 @p2}{\highlight7 <*14>}1:13{\highlight7 <LT>}{\highlight7 <EM>}He used to say: He who seeks greater reputation loses his reputation. He 
who does not increase his knowledge decreases it. He who does not study 
deserves death. And he who puts the crown (of Torah) to his own use shall 
perish.{\highlight7 <QL>}\par
{\highlight7 @p2}{\highlight7 <*15>}1:14{\highlight7 <LT>}{\highlight7 <EM>}He used to say: If I do not do for myself, who will do it for me? And if I 
care only for myself, what am I? And if not now, when?{\highlight7 <QL>}\par
{\highlight7 @p2}{\highlight7 <*16>}1:15{\highlight7 <LT>}{\highlight7 <EM>}Shammai says: Make your study of Torah a regular practice, say little 
and do much, and receive all men with a cheerful countenance.{\highlight7 <QL>}\par
{\highlight7 @p2}{\highlight7 <*17>}1:16{\highlight7 <LT>}{\highlight7 <EM>}Rabban Gamliel says: Provide yourself with a teacher and free yourself 
of doubt, and do not give extra tithe because of guesswork.{\highlight7 <QL>}\par
{\highlight7 @p2}{\highlight7 <*18>}1:17{\highlight7 <LT>}{\highlight7 <EM>}Shimon his son says: All my life, I was brought up among the Sages and 
I have not found anything better for a person than silence. Study is not the 
most important thing but practice is, and too much talk brings sin.{\highlight7 <QL>}\par
{\highlight7 @p2}{\highlight7 <*19>}1:18{\highlight7 <LT>}{\highlight7 <EM>}Rabban Shimon ben Gamliel says: The world is sustained by virtue of 
three principles; by truth, by justice, and by peace, as it is said: You shall 
administer truth, justice and peace in your gates ({\highlight7 <IT>}Zechariah{\highlight7 <ITC>} 8:16).{\highlight7 <QL>}\par
{\highlight7 @pc}{\highlight7 <IL12>}{\highlight7 <IR12>}{\highlight7 @p1}{\highlight7 <*20>}{\highlight7 @pc}Chapter 2{\highlight7 <QC>}\par
{\highlight7 @p1}{\highlight7 <IL0>}{\highlight7 <IR0>}{\highlight7 <*21>}2:1{\highlight7 <LT>}{\highlight7 <EM>}Rebbe says: Which is the right course that a man should choose for 
himself? One which is a credit to the person who chooses it and which also 
earns him respect from his fellow man. Be careful to perform a minor mitzvah 
in the same manner as a major one for you do not know the reward for each 
mitzvah. Consider the loss incurred in the performance of a mitzvah against 
the reward secured by its observance, and the gain received from a sin against 
the loss which will be suffered. Reflect upon three things and you will not 
come into the clutches of sin. Know what is above you: An eye that sees, an ear 
that hears, and a book in which all your deeds are recorded.{\highlight7 <QL>}\par
{\highlight7 @p2}{\highlight7 <*22>}2:2{\highlight7 <LT>}{\highlight7 <EM>}Rabban Gamliel, the son of Rabbi Yehudah haNasi, says: The study of 
Torah combined with a worldly occupation is an excellent thing, for the 
energy needed by both keeps sinful thoughts out of one’s mind. And any 
study of Torah when not accompanied by a trade must fail in the end and 
become the cause of sin. Let all those who occupy themselves with the affairs 
of the community do so only for the sake of Heaven, for then the merit of their 
fathers will help them, and their righteousness will last forever. And as for you 
(says God), I credit you with great reward as if you had achieved it all.{\highlight7 <QL>}\par
{\highlight7 @p2}{\highlight7 <*23>}2:3{\highlight7 <LT>}{\highlight7 <EM>}Be cautious of the ruling authorities because they befriend a person only 
for their own interests. They appear as friends when it is to their own advantage 
but they do not stand by a person in the time of his distress.{\highlight7 <QL>}\par
{\highlight7 @p2}{\highlight7 <*24>}2:4{\highlight7 <LT>}{\highlight7 <EM>}He used to say: Do the will of God as if it were your own, so that He will 
do your will as if it were His will. Nullify your will for the sake of His will so 
that He will nullify the will of others for your sake. Hillel said: Do not separate 
yourself from the community. Do not be sure of yourself until the day of your 
death. Do not judge your fellow man until you have been in his position. Do 
not say anything unless its full meaning and implications are understood 
immediately. And do not say, “When I have leisure time I will study,” for you 
may never have leisure.{\highlight7 <QL>}\par
{\highlight7 @p2}{\highlight7 <*25>}2:5{\highlight7 <LT>}{\highlight7 <EM>}He used to say: An uncultivated person can have no fear of sin; a man 
lacking instruction cannot be pious; a bashful person cannot learn; and a 
person without patience cannot teach. One too deeply involved in business 
cannot become a scholar, and where there are no men, strive to be a man.{\highlight7 <QL>}\par
{\highlight7 @p2}{\highlight7 <*26>}2:6{\highlight7 <LT>}{\highlight7 <EM>}He saw a skull floating on the surface of the water. He said to it: They have 
drowned you because you drowned others, and those who drowned you will 
themselves be drowned.{\highlight7 <QL>}\par
{\highlight7 @p2}{\highlight7 <*27>}2:7{\highlight7 <LT>}{\highlight7 <EM>}He used to say: The more flesh, the more worms; the more property, the 
more worry; the more wives, the more superstition; the more maidservants, 
the more lewdness; the more menservants, the more robbery; the more Torah 
[study] the more life; the more study, the more wisdom; the more counsel, the 
more understanding; the more charity, the more peace. One who has acquired 
a good name, has acquired it for himself; one who has acquired the knowledge 
of Torah, has acquired life of the World to Come.{\highlight7 <QL>}\par
{\highlight7 @p2}{\highlight7 <*28>}2:8{\highlight7 <LT>}{\highlight7 <EM>}Rabban Yochanan ben Zakkai received the tradition from Hillel and 
Shammai. He used to say: If you have learned a great deal of Torah, do not pride 
yourself on it, because you were created for this purpose. Rabban Yochanan 
ben Zakkai had five disciples (of special excellence) whose names were: Rabbi 
Eliezer ben Horkenos, Rabbi Yehoshua ben Chananyah, Rabbi Yos{\u233\'3f} the Kohen, 
Rabbi Shimon ben Nesanel and Rabbi Elazar ben Arach. He used to enumerate 
their merits: Rabbi Eliezer ben Horkenos is a cemented cistern which does not 
lose a drop. Rabbi Yehoshua ben ChananyahÐhappy is she who bore him. 
Rabbi Yos{\u233\'3f} the Kohen is pious. Rabbi Shimon ben Nesanel is one who fears 
sin. Rabbi Elazar ben Arach is like a spring which steadily increases its flow. He 
used to say: If all the Sages of Israel were on one scale of the balance and Eliezer 
ben Horkenos on the other, he would outweigh them all. Abba Shaul said in 
his name: If all the Sages of Israel including Eliezer ben Horkenos were on one 
scale of the balance and Elazar ben Arach on the other, he would outweigh 
them all.{\highlight7 <QL>}\par
{\highlight7 @p2}{\highlight7 <*29>}2:9{\highlight7 <LT>}{\highlight7 <EM>}He said to them: Go out and see which is the best trait a person should 
acquire. Rabbi Eliezer said: A good eye. Rabbi Yehoshua said: A good friend. 
Rabbi Yos{\u233\'3f} said: A good neighbor. Rabbi Shimon said: One who considers the 
consequences of an action. Rabbi Elazar said: A good heart. He said to them: I 
prefer the words of Rabbi Elazar ben Arach to yours, because your answers are 
included in his words. He said to them: Go out and see which evil trait a person 
should shun. Rabbi Eliezer said: An evil eye. Rabbi Yehoshua said: A bad friend. 
Rabbi Yos{\u233\'3f} said: A bad neighbor. Rabbi Shimon said: One who borrows and 
does not repay. Borrowing from man is the same as borrowing from God, for 
it is said: “A wicked person borrows and does not repay, but a righteous person 
deals graciously and gives” [{\highlight7 <IT>}Psalms{\highlight7 <ITC>} 37:21]. Rabbi Elazar said: An evil heart. He 
said to them: I prefer the words of Rabbi Elazar ben Arach to yours, because 
your words are included in his words.{\highlight7 <QL>}\par
{\highlight7 @p2}{\highlight7 <*30>}2:10{\highlight7 <LT>}{\highlight7 <EM>}They each said three things. Rabbi Eliezer said: Your friend’s honor 
should be as precious to you as your own, and do not be easily moved to anger. 
Repent the day before you die. Warm yourself by the fire of the Sages but 
beware of their glowing coals so you will not be burned; because their bite is 
like that of a fox, their sting is like that of a scorpion, their hiss is like that of a 
serpent, and all their words are like fiery coals.{\highlight7 <QL>}\par
{\highlight7 @p2}{\highlight7 <*31>}2:11{\highlight7 <LT>}{\highlight7 <EM>}Rabbi Yehoshua says: The evil eye, the evil impulse, and hatred of 
mankind shorten a person’s life.{\highlight7 <QL>}\par
{\highlight7 @p2}{\highlight7 <*32>}2:12{\highlight7 <LT>}{\highlight7 <EM>}Rabbi Yos{\u233\'3f} says: Your friend’s property should be as precious to you as 
your own. Discipline yourself to study Torah because the knowledge of Torah 
does not come to you by inheritance; and all your deeds should be done to 
honor God.{\highlight7 <QL>}\par
{\highlight7 @p2}{\highlight7 <*33>}2:13{\highlight7 <LT>}{\highlight7 <EM>}Rabbi Shimon says: Be careful in reading the Shema and the Shemoneh 
Esrei ({\highlight7 <IT>}Amidah{\highlight7 <ITC>}). When you pray, do not regard your prayer as a fixed, mechan 
ical routine but as an appeal for mercy and grace before God, as it is said: “For 
He is gracious and full of mercy, slow to anger and abundant in loving kind 
ness, and relenting of the evil decree” [{\highlight7 <IT>}Joel{\highlight7 <ITC>} 2:13]. And do not consider yourself 
a wicked person.{\highlight7 <QL>}\par
{\highlight7 @p2}{\highlight7 <*34>}2:14{\highlight7 <LT>}{\highlight7 <EM>}Rabbi Elazar says: Be diligent to study the Torah, and know what to 
answer one who is scornful of the Law. And know before Whom you toil; Your 
Employer is trustworthy and will pay you the reward for your labor.{\highlight7 <QL>}\par
{\highlight7 @p2}{\highlight7 <*35>}2:15{\highlight7 <LT>}{\highlight7 <EM>}Rabbi Tarfon says: The day is short, the task is great, the workers are lazy, 
the reward is great and the Master is insistent.{\highlight7 <QL>}\par
{\highlight7 @p2}{\highlight7 <*36>}2:16{\highlight7 <LT>}{\highlight7 <EM>}He used to say: You are not expected to complete the work and yet you 
are not free to evade it. If you have studied a great deal of Torah, you will be 
given great reward and your Employer can be trusted to pay you the reward for 
your work, but know that the reward of the righteous will be paid in the World 
to Come.{\highlight7 <QL>}\par
{\highlight7 @pc}{\highlight7 <IL12>}{\highlight7 <IR12>}{\highlight7 @p1}{\highlight7 <*37>}{\highlight7 @pc}Chapter 3{\highlight7 <QC>}\par
{\highlight7 @p1}{\highlight7 <IL0>}{\highlight7 <IR0>}{\highlight7 <*38>}3:1{\highlight7 <LT>}{\highlight7 <EM>}Akavya ben Mahalalel says: Consider three things and you will not sin. 
Know from what you came, where you are going and before Whom you will 
have to give account and reckoning. From what do you come?Ðfrom a putrid 
drop. Where are you going?Ðto a place of dust, decay and maggots. Before 
Whom are you destined to give account and reckoning?Ðbefore the Supreme 
King of kings, the Holy One, blessed be He.{\highlight7 <QL>}\par
{\highlight7 @p2}{\highlight7 <*39>}3:2{\highlight7 <LT>}{\highlight7 <EM>}Rabbi Chanina, the deputy to the Kohen Gadol, says: Pray for the welfare 
of the government, because if people had no fear of it, they would swallow 
each other alive. Rabbi Chananyah ben Teradyon says: When two people sit 
together and words of Torah are not exchanged between them, it is considered 
a session of scorners, as it is said: “And he never sat in the session of scorners” 
[{\highlight7 <IT>}Psalms{\highlight7 <ITC>} 1:1]. But when two sit together and discuss words of Torah, the pres 
ence of God is with them, as it is said: “Those who feared God spoke to each 
other, and God listened and heard, and in His presence a record was written of 
those who fear God and think about His Name{\highlight7 <TIE>}.{\highlight7 <TIE>}.{\highlight7 <TIE>}.” [{\highlight7 <IT>}Malachi{\highlight7 <ITC>} 3:16]. This refers 
to two people. How do we know that even if one person sits and studies the 
Torah, the Holy One blessed be He, sets aside a reward for him? Because it is 
said: “Though he may sit alone in thoughtful meditation, yet he receives that 
which was set fo r him” [{\highlight7 <IT>}Lamentations{\highlight7 <ITC>} 3:27].{\highlight7 <QL>}\par
{\highlight7 @p2}{\highlight7 <*40>}3:3{\highlight7 <LT>}{\highlight7 <EM>}Rabbi Shimon says: If three people ate together at a table without speak 
ing words of Torah, it is as if they had eaten of sacrifices offered to the dead 
[idols], as it is said: “All their tables are full of filth without room” [{\highlight7 <IT>}Isaiah{\highlight7 <ITC>} 
28:8]. But if three ate at a table and spoke words of Torah, it is as though they 
had eaten from the table of God, as it is said: “He said to me this is the table 
which is in the presence of God” [{\highlight7 <IT>}Ezekiel{\highlight7 <ITC>} 41:22].{\highlight7 <QL>}\par
{\highlight7 @p2}{\highlight7 <*41>}3:4{\highlight7 <LT>}{\highlight7 <EM>}Rabbi Chaninah ben Chachinai says: He who keeps awake at night, or 
travels alone on the road, and makes room in his heart for idleness, sins against 
himself.{\highlight7 <QL>}\par
{\highlight7 @p2}{\highlight7 <*42>}3:5{\highlight7 <LT>}{\highlight7 <EM>}Rabbi Nechunyah ben Hakanah says: Whoever accepts the yoke of Torah, 
will be relieved from the yoke of government and the yoke of secular life. But 
whoever throws aside the yoke of Torah, will be burdened with the yoke of the 
government and the yoke of secular life.{\highlight7 <QL>}\par
{\highlight7 @p2}{\highlight7 <*43>}3:6{\highlight7 <LT>}{\highlight7 <EM>}Rabbi Chalaftah ben Dosa, of the village of Chananyah says: When ten 
people sit together and study Torah, the presence of God is among them as it 
is said: “God stands in a congregation of the Almighty” [{\highlight7 <IT>}Psalms{\highlight7 <ITC>} 82:1] How do 
we know that this applies even to five? Because it is said: “He has founded his 
band upon the earth” [{\highlight7 <IT>}Amos{\highlight7 <ITC>} 9:6]. How do we know that this applies even to 
three? Because it is said: “He judges in the midst of judges” [{\highlight7 <IT>}Psalms{\highlight7 <ITC>} 82:1]. How 
do we know that it applies even to two? Because it is said: “Then those who 
feared God spoke with one another and God listened and heard” [{\highlight7 <IT>}Malachi{\highlight7 <ITC>} 
3:16]. How do we know that it also applies even to one? Because it is said: “In 
every place where I have My Name remembered, I will come to you and bless 
you” [{\highlight7 <IT>}Exodus{\highlight7 <ITC>} 20:24].{\highlight7 <QL>}\par
{\highlight7 @p2}{\highlight7 <*44>}3:7{\highlight7 <LT>}{\highlight7 <EM>}Rabbi Elazar of Bartosa says: Give Him what is His, because you and all 
that you have are His. This was also expressed by David who said: “All things 
come from You and we have given You only what is Yours” [{\highlight7 <IT>}Chronicles{\highlight7 <ITC>} 1 29:14]. 
Rabbi Yaakov says: One who walks on the road while he is studying and 
interrupts his study to exclaim, “How beautiful is this tree! How fine is this 
field!” the Scripture regards him as if he sins against himself.{\highlight7 <QL>}\par
{\highlight7 @p2}{\highlight7 <*45>}3:8{\highlight7 <LT>}{\highlight7 <EM>}Rabbi Dostai bar Yannai says in the name of Rabbi Meir: Whoever forgets 
even one word of his studies, Scriptures regards him as if he had sinned against 
his soul, for it is said: “Only take care and guard your soul diligently that you 
do not forget the facts which your eyes have seen” [{\highlight7 <IT>}Deuteronomy{\highlight7 <ITC>} 4:9]. Now, one 
might suppose that this applies even to a person who has forgotten because his 
study was too difficult for him. The Torah, therefore, concludes by adding: 
“And lest they be removed from your heart all the days of your life” [ibid.]. 
Accordingly, he is not guilty unless he deliberately removes these teachings 
from his heart.{\highlight7 <QL>}\par
{\highlight7 @p2}{\highlight7 <*46>}3:9{\highlight7 <LT>}{\highlight7 <EM>}Rabbi Chaninah ben Dosa says: Anyone whose fear of sin precedes his 
wisdom, his wisdom shall endure. But one whose wisdom precedes the fear of 
sin, his wisdom shall not endure. He used to say: Anyone whose deeds exceed 
his wisdom, his wisdom will endure, but anyone whose wisdom exceeds his 
deeds, his wisdom will not endure.{\highlight7 <QL>}\par
{\highlight7 @p2}{\highlight7 <*47>}3:10{\highlight7 <LT>}{\highlight7 <EM>}He used to say: He who is pleasing to his fellow men is pleasing also to 
God, but he who is not pleasing to men is displeasing to God. Rabbi Dosa ben 
Horkinos says: Morning sleep and midday wine, children’s talk and sitting in 
the meeting places of the ignorant, drive a man from the world [i.e., shorten 
his life].{\highlight7 <QL>}\par
{\highlight7 @p2}{\highlight7 <*48>}3:11{\highlight7 <LT>}{\highlight7 <EM>}Rabbi Elazar of Modin says: He who profanes sacred things, degrades 
the festivals, and puts his fellow man to shame in public, violates the covenant 
of our father, Abraham. And he who interprets the Torah contrary to the 
HalachaÐeven though he is learned in Torah and possesses good deedsÐhas no 
share in the World to Come.{\highlight7 <QL>}\par
{\highlight7 @p2}{\highlight7 <*49>}3:12{\highlight7 <LT>}{\highlight7 <EM>}Rabbi Yishmael says: Be yielding to your superior and affable to the 
young, and receive all man with gladness.{\highlight7 <QL>}\par
{\highlight7 @p2}{\highlight7 <*50>}3:13{\highlight7 <LT>}{\highlight7 <EM>}Rabbi Akiva says: Jesting and levity accustom a man to lewdness. Tradi 
tion (Oral Law) is a protective fence about the Torah, the tithes are a protective 
fence for wealth, vows are a protective fence for voluntary abstinence. A 
protective fence for wisdom is silence.{\highlight7 <QL>}\par
{\highlight7 @p2}{\highlight7 <*51>}3:14{\highlight7 <LT>}{\highlight7 <EM>}He used to say: Beloved is man, for he was created in the image of God. 
It was an act of special favor that it was disclosed to him that he was created in 
God’s image, as it is said: “For in the image of God did He create man” [{\highlight7 <IT>}Genesis{\highlight7 <ITC>} 
9:6]. Beloved is Israel for they are called children of God. It was an act of 
special favor that it was disclosed to them that they are called the children of 
God, as it is said: “You are the children of God” [{\highlight7 <IT>}Deuteronomy{\highlight7 <ITC>} 14:1]. Beloved is 
Israel for a precious instrument was given to them which was used to create the 
world, as it is said: “I have given you a good teaching, do not forsake My Torah” 
[{\highlight7 <IT>}Proverbs{\highlight7 <ITC>} 4:2].{\highlight7 <QL>}\par
{\highlight7 @p2}{\highlight7 <*52>}3:15{\highlight7 <LT>}{\highlight7 <EM>}Everything is foreseen, yet freedom of choice is given. The world is 
judged with goodness, and the judgment is according to the scope and magni 
tude of man’s actions.{\highlight7 <QL>}\par
{\highlight7 @p2}{\highlight7 <*53>}3:16{\highlight7 <LT>}{\highlight7 <EM>}He used to say: Everything is given on pledge and a net is spread out 
over all the living. The shop is open, the merchant extends credit, the ledger is 
open and the hand records therein. Whoever wishes to borrow, let him come 
and borrow. But the collectors make their regular, daily rounds and take 
payment from man whether or not he realizes it. They have good authority on 
which to rely and the legal procedure is proper. All is prepared for the festive 
banquet.{\highlight7 <QL>}\par
{\highlight7 @p2}{\highlight7 <*54>}3:17{\highlight7 <LT>}{\highlight7 <EM>}Rabbi Elazar ben Azaryah says: Without Torah there is no proper con 
duct and without proper conduct there is no Torah. Without wisdom there is 
no fear of God and without fear of God there is no wisdom. Without knowl 
edge there is no understanding and without understanding there is no knowl 
edge. Without sustenance there is no Torah and without Torah there is no 
sustenance. He used to say: One whose wisdom exceeds his deeds is like a tree 
that has many branches but few roots. When the wind comes, it uproots it and 
turns it over as it is said: “And he will be like a lonely tree in the wasteland, and 
shall not see the coming of the good. He will live upon the parched soil in the 
wilderness, a salt land which is uninhabitable” [{\highlight7 <IT>}Jeremiah{\highlight7 <ITC>} 17:6]. But he whose 
deeds exceed his wisdom is like a tree that has few branches and many roots. 
Even if all the winds in the world come and blow upon it, they cannot move it 
from its place, as it is said: “And he sh all be like a tree planted by the waters 
which spreads out its roots toward the stream. It shall not see the coming of 
the heat and its leaf shall remain fresh. It will not be troubled in the year of 
drought, and will not stop from bearing fruit” [{\highlight7 <IT>}Jeremiah{\highlight7 <ITC>} 17:8].{\highlight7 <QL>}\par
{\highlight7 @p2}{\highlight7 <*55>}3:18{\highlight7 <LT>}{\highlight7 <EM>}Rabbi Elazar ben Chisma says: The laws concerning the sacrificing of 
doves and the commencement of woman’s unclean period are essential pre 
cepts. Astronomy and numeric values are condiments to wisdom.{\highlight7 <QL>}\par
{\highlight7 @pc}{\highlight7 <IL12>}{\highlight7 <IR12>}{\highlight7 @p1}{\highlight7 <*56>}{\highlight7 @pc}Chapter 4{\highlight7 <QC>}\par
{\highlight7 @p1}{\highlight7 <IL0>}{\highlight7 <IR0>}{\highlight7 <*57>}4:1{\highlight7 <LT>}{\highlight7 <EM>}Ben Zoma says, Who is wise? He who learns from all men, as it is said: 
“From all my teachers I gained wisdom” [{\highlight7 <IT>}Psalms{\highlight7 <ITC>} 119:99]. Who is mighty? He 
who conquers his evil inclination, as it is said: “He who is slow to anger is 
better than the mighty, and he who controls his will is better than the one who 
conquers a city” [{\highlight7 <IT>}Proverbs{\highlight7 <ITC>} 16:32]. Who is rich? He who rejoices with his 
portion, as it is said: “When you enjoy the work of your hands, you will be 
happy and it will be well with you” [{\highlight7 <IT>}Psalms{\highlight7 <ITC>} 128:2]. “Happy” in this world, 
“and it will be well with you” in the World to Come. Who is worthy of honor? 
He who knows his fellowman, as it is said: “Those who honor Me, I will honor, 
and those who despise Me will be held in contempt” [{\highlight7 <IT>}1 Samuel{\highlight7 <ITC>} 2:30].{\highlight7 <QL>}\par
{\highlight7 @p2}{\highlight7 <*58>}4:2{\highlight7 <LT>}{\highlight7 <EM>}Ben Azzai says: Hasten to perform the easiest mitzvah, and run from all 
sin. For one mitzvah will lead to another mitzvah, and one sin to another sin. 
Because the reward of a mitzvah is a mitzvah, and the wages of sin is sin.{\highlight7 <QL>}\par
{\highlight7 @p2}{\highlight7 <*59>}4:3{\highlight7 <LT>}{\highlight7 <EM>}He used to say: Do not despise any man, and consider nothing impossi 
ble because there is no man that does not have his hour, and nothing that does 
not have its place.{\highlight7 <QL>}\par
{\highlight7 @p2}{\highlight7 <*60>}4:4{\highlight7 <LT>}{\highlight7 <EM>}Rabbi Levitas of Yavneh says: Be very humble of spirit for the end of man 
is decay. Rabbi Yochanan the son of Berokah says: He who profanes the Name 
of God in secret will suffer the penalty for it in public. This is true regardless 
of whether the act of profanity was done intentionally or unintentionally.{\highlight7 <QL>}\par
{\highlight7 @p2}{\highlight7 <*61>}4:5{\highlight7 <LT>}{\highlight7 <EM>}Rabbi Yishmael, son of Rabbi Yosse, says: He who learns in order to teach 
will be given the opportunity to learn and teach. But he who learns in order to 
perform mitzvos will be given the means to learn, to teach, to observe and to 
perform the mitzvos. Rabbi Tzadok says: Do not use the knowledge of Torah as 
a crown to magnify yourself or as a spade to dig. And this is what Hillel used 
to say: He who makes use of the crown (of Torah) shall pass away. From this you 
can learn that he who derives personal gain from the words of Torah, takes his 
own life from this world.{\highlight7 <QL>}\par
{\highlight7 @p2}{\highlight7 <*62>}4:6{\highlight7 <LT>}{\highlight7 <EM>}Rabbi Yos{\u233\'3f} says: He who honors the Torah will himself be honored by 
mankind, but he who dishonors the Torah will himself be dishonored by 
mankind.{\highlight7 <QL>}\par
{\highlight7 @p2}{\highlight7 <*63>}4:7{\highlight7 <LT>}{\highlight7 <EM>}Rabbi Yishmael, his son, says: He who avoids judicial office rids himself 
of hatred, robbery and needless oaths, and he who is over confident of his 
decisions is foolish, wicked and arrogant.{\highlight7 <QL>}\par
{\highlight7 @p2}{\highlight7 <*64>}4:8{\highlight7 <LT>}{\highlight7 <EM>}He used to say: Do not judge alone, because there is only One Who 
judges alone. And do not say: Accept my opinion, for they have the 
authorityÐnot you.{\highlight7 <QL>}\par
{\highlight7 @p2}{\highlight7 <*65>}4:9{\highlight7 <LT>}{\highlight7 <EM>}Rabbi Yonason says: Whoever fulfills the Torah despite poverty shall 
eventually fulfill it amidst wealth. He who neglects the Torah amidst wealth 
shall eventually neglect it in poverty.{\highlight7 <QL>}\par
{\highlight7 @p2}{\highlight7 <*66>}4:10{\highlight7 <LT>}{\highlight7 <EM>}Rabbi Meir says: Limit your business activities and be occupied with the 
Torah instead. Be of humble spirit in the presence of all men. If you neglect the 
Torah, many causes for further neglect will come your way, but if you toil in 
the Torah, God has abundant reward to give you.{\highlight7 <QL>}\par
{\highlight7 @p2}{\highlight7 <*67>}4:11{\highlight7 <LT>}{\highlight7 <EM>}Rabbi Eliezer ben Yaakov says: He who performs one mitzvah gains one 
advocate for himself and he who commits one sin acquires one accuser. Repen 
tance and good deeds are a shield against calamity. Rabbi Yochanan HaSandler 
says: Every assembly that is called in the name of Heaven will endure, but that 
which is not for the sake of Heaven, will not endure.{\highlight7 <QL>}\par
{\highlight7 @p2}{\highlight7 <*68>}4:12{\highlight7 <LT>}{\highlight7 <EM>}Rabbi Elazar ben Shamua says: Let the honor of your student be as dear 
to you as your own. Let the honor of your colleague be as dear to you as the 
reverence due to your teacher. And let the reverence due to your teacher be as 
dear to you as the reverence due to God.{\highlight7 <QL>}\par
{\highlight7 @p2}{\highlight7 <*69>}4:13{\highlight7 <LT>}{\highlight7 <EM>}Rabbi Yehudah says: Be careful in teaching, for an error in teaching may 
amount to an intentional sin. Rabbi Shimon says: There are three crowns: The 
crown of Torah, the crown of priesthood, and the crown of royalty. But the 
crown of a good name exceeds them all.{\highlight7 <QL>}\par
{\highlight7 @p2}{\highlight7 <*70>}4:14{\highlight7 <LT>}{\highlight7 <EM>}Rabbi Nehorai says: Move to a place where Torah is studied and do not 
say that the Torah will follow you, because your fellow students will make it 
your possession. And do not rely on your own understanding.{\highlight7 <QL>}\par
{\highlight7 @p2}{\highlight7 <*71>}4:15{\highlight7 <LT>}{\highlight7 <EM>}Rabbi Yannai says: We cannot account for the tranquility of the wicked 
or the afflictions of the righteous. Rabbi Masyah ben Charash says: Be first to 
greet all men and be a tail among lions rather than a head among foxes.{\highlight7 <QL>}\par
{\highlight7 @p2}{\highlight7 <*72>}4:16{\highlight7 <LT>}{\highlight7 <EM>}Rabbi Yaakov says: This world is like a lobby before the World to Come. 
Prepare yourself in the lobby so that you may enter the banquet hall.{\highlight7 <QL>}\par
{\highlight7 @p2}{\highlight7 <*73>}4:17{\highlight7 <LT>}{\highlight7 <EM>}He used to say: One hour spent in repentance and good deeds in this 
world is worth more than the whole life of the World to Come. And one hour 
of the spiritual bliss in the World to Come is worth more than the whole life 
of this world.{\highlight7 <QL>}\par
{\highlight7 @p2}{\highlight7 <*74>}4:18{\highlight7 <LT>}{\highlight7 <EM>}Rabbi Shimon ben Elazar says: Do not try to pacify your friend at the 
time of his anger and do not comfort him while his dead lies before him. At the 
time he makes a vow, do not suggest ways for him to reconsider his vow, and 
try not to see him at the time of his humiliation.{\highlight7 <QL>}\par
{\highlight7 @p2}{\highlight7 <*75>}4:19{\highlight7 <LT>}{\highlight7 <EM>}Shmuel HaKattan says: Do not rejoice when your enemy falls and do 
not be glad in your heart when he stumbles lest God see it and be displeased 
and will divert His anger from him.{\highlight7 <QL>}\par
{\highlight7 @p2}{\highlight7 <*76>}4:20{\highlight7 <LT>}{\highlight7 <EM>}Elisha ben Abuyah says: That which one learns in his youth to what is 
it compared? To ink written on new paper. That which one learns in his old age 
to what is it compared? To ink written on blotted paper. Rabbi Yos{\u233\'3f} ben 
Yehudah of Kfar HaBavli says: He who learns from young men is like one who 
eats unripe grapes and drinks the (new) wine from the wine press. He who 
learns from old men is like one who eats ripe grapes and drinks aged wine. 
Rabbi Meir says: Do not look at the bottle but at what it contains. A new bottle 
may be full of old wine and an old bottle may not even have new wine.{\highlight7 <QL>}\par
{\highlight7 @p2}{\highlight7 <*77>}4:21{\highlight7 <LT>}{\highlight7 <EM>}Rabbi Elazar HaKapar says: Envy, lust and desire for honor drive a man 
out of the world.{\highlight7 <QL>}\par
{\highlight7 @p2}{\highlight7 <*78>}4:22{\highlight7 <LT>}{\highlight7 <EM>}He used to say: Those who are born are destined to die and the dead to 
rise again; the living to be judged, to know, to teach and to make known that 
God is the Maker, He is the Creator. He understands everything, He is the Judge, 
He is the witness, He is the complainant. He will judge in the time to come, 
blessed be He, in Whose presence there is no wrong, no forgetfulness, no 
partiality, nor acceptance of bribes. Know that everything is according to 
reckoning, and do not let your passions give you hope that the grave is a place 
of refuge for you. Because against your will, you were formed; against your will 
you live; against your will you will die; and against your will you must, in the 
future, give account and reckoning before the Supreme King of Kings, the 
Holy One Blessed be He.{\highlight7 <QL>}\par
{\highlight7 @pc}{\highlight7 <IL12>}{\highlight7 <IR12>}{\highlight7 @p1}{\highlight7 <*79>}{\highlight7 @pc}Chapter 5{\highlight7 <QC>}\par
{\highlight7 @p1}{\highlight7 <IL0>}{\highlight7 <IR0>}{\highlight7 <*80>}5:1{\highlight7 <LT>}{\highlight7 <EM>}By ten utterances was the world created. And what does this teach us? 
Surely the world could have been created by one utterance. It means to 
emphasize that God will exact punishment from the wicked who destroy the 
world which was created by ten utterances; and will richly reward the right 
eous who sustain the world which was created by ten utterances.{\highlight7 <QL>}\par
{\highlight7 @p2}{\highlight7 <*81>}5:2{\highlight7 <LT>}{\highlight7 <EM>}There were ten generations from Adam to Noah, to make known how 
great is God’s patience, for all these generations provoked Him until He 
brought upon them the waters of the flood. There were ten generations from 
Noah to Abraham to make known how great is God’s patience, for all these 
generations provoked Him until our father Abraham came and received the 
reward that would have been theirs.{\highlight7 <QL>}\par
{\highlight7 @p2}{\highlight7 <*82>}5:3{\highlight7 <LT>}{\highlight7 <EM>}With ten trials was our father Abraham tried, and he stood firm through 
all of them; to make known how great was the love of our father Abraham [for 
God].{\highlight7 <QL>}\par
{\highlight7 @p2}{\highlight7 <*83>}5:4{\highlight7 <LT>}{\highlight7 <EM>}Ten miracles were performed for our fathers in Egypt and ten at the Sea. 
Ten plagues did God bring upon the Egyptians in Egypt and ten at the Sea. Ten 
times did our fathers try God in the wilderness as it is said, “Now they have 
tried Me ten times, and have not listened to My voice” ({\highlight7 <IT>}Numbers{\highlight7 <ITC>} 14:22).{\highlight7 <QL>}\par
{\highlight7 @p2}{\highlight7 <*84>}5:5{\highlight7 <LT>}{\highlight7 <EM>}Ten miracles were performed for our fathers in the Bais HaMikdosh: 1) 
no woman ever miscarried from the aroma of the sacred flesh, 2) the sacred 
flesh never spoiled, 3) never was a fly seen in the slaughterhouse (of the 
Temple), 4) no unclean accident ever happened to the Kohen Godol on Yom 
Kippur, 5) the rain never extinguished the fire on the woodpile (on the Altar), 
6) the wind never prevailed over the column of smoke [that rose from the 
altar], 7) never was a defect found in the omer, or in the two loaves or in the 
showbreads, 8) the people stood closely pressed together and yet found 
enough room to prostrate themselves, 9) never did a serpent or scorpion harm 
anyone in Jerusalem,10) and no man ever said to his friend: “There is no room 
for me to lodge overnight in Jerusalem.”{\highlight7 <QL>}\par
{\highlight7 @p2}{\highlight7 <*85>}5:6{\highlight7 <LT>}{\highlight7 <EM>}Ten things were created on the eve of the [first] Shabbos at twilight: 1) 
the mouth of the earth, 2) the mouth of the well, 3) the mouth of the donkey, 
4) the rainbow, 5) the manna, 6) the staff, 7) the shamir, 8) the written 
characters, 9) the writing, 10) the tablets of the Law. Others include demons, 
the grave of Moshe, the ram of our father Abraham. Others say: also the tongs 
made by tongs.{\highlight7 <QL>}\par
{\highlight7 @p2}{\highlight7 <*86>}5:7{\highlight7 <LT>}{\highlight7 <EM>}Seven qualities characterize the clod and seven the wise man. 1) The wise 
man does not speak before him who is greater than he in wisdom and experi 
ence; 2) he does not interrupt the speech of his friend; 3) he is not hasty to 
reply; 4) he asks what is relevant and answers to the point; 5) he speaks of first 
things first and of last things last; 6) regarding that which he has not heard, he 
says, “I have not heard”; 7) he acknowledges the truth. And the opposite of 
these traits apply to the clod.{\highlight7 <QL>}\par
{\highlight7 @p2}{\highlight7 <*87>}5:8{\highlight7 <LT>}{\highlight7 <EM>}Seven kinds of punishment come upon the world for seven kinds of 
transgression. If some tithe and some do not, famine resulting from drought 
comes. Some go hungry and others will have plenty. If they all determine not 
to tithe, famine resulting from tumult and from drought comes. And if they 
all determined not to set aside the challah from their dough, a famine of 
extermination comes. Pestilence comes upon the world to execute those death 
penalties mentioned in the Torah which are not within the jurisdiction of the 
Beth Din, and for making forbidden use of the harvest of the Sabbatical year. 
The sword comes upon the world for the delay of justice, for the perversion of 
justice and because of those that teach the Torah not in accordance with the 
halacha.{\highlight7 <QL>}\par
{\highlight7 @p2}{\highlight7 <*88>}5:9{\highlight7 <LT>}{\highlight7 <EM>}Wild beasts come upon the world for the taking of false oaths and for 
profaning the Divine Name. Exile comes upon the world for idolatry, immo 
rality, bloodshed and for not allowing the soil to rest in the Sabbatical year. At 
four periods pestilence increases: In the fourth year; in the seventh year; at the 
conclusion of the seventh year; and at the conclusion of Festival in every year. 
In the fourth year for failure to give the tithe to the poor in the third year; in 
the seventh year for failure to give the tithe to the poor in the sixth year; at the 
conclusion of the seventh year for having made forbidden use of the harvest of 
the Sabbatical year; at the conclusion of the Festival in every year for depriving 
the poor of the gifts which the Torah grants them.{\highlight7 <QL>}\par
{\highlight7 @p2}{\highlight7 <*89>}5:10{\highlight7 <LT>}{\highlight7 <EM>}There are four character types among men; He who says: “What is mine 
is mine, and what is yours is yours,” is the average type, though some say that 
this is the character of Sodom. He who says: “What is mine is yours and what 
is yours is mine,” is an ignoramus. He who says: “What is mine is yours and 
what is yours is yours,” is pious. He who says: “What is yours is mine and what 
is mine is mine,” is wicked.{\highlight7 <QL>}\par
{\highlight7 @p2}{\highlight7 <*90>}5:11{\highlight7 <LT>}{\highlight7 <EM>}There are four kinds of dispositions: he who is easily angered and easily 
pacified, his loss is offset by his gain; he who is hard to anger and hard to 
pacify, his gain is cancelled by his loss; he who is hard to anger and easy to 
pacify is pious; he who is easily angered and hard to pacify, is wicked.{\highlight7 <QL>}\par
{\highlight7 @p2}{\highlight7 <*91>}5:12{\highlight7 <LT>}{\highlight7 <EM>}There are four types of students. He who is: quick to understand but 
quick to forget, his gain is offset by his loss; slow to understand, but slow to 
forget, his loss is compensated by his gain; quick to understand and slow to 
forget is the best quality; slow to understand and quick to forget is the worst 
quality.{\highlight7 <QL>}\par
{\highlight7 @p2}{\highlight7 <*92>}5:13{\highlight7 <LT>}{\highlight7 <EM>}There are four types of donors to charity. He who wants to give but does 
not want others to give, begrudges what belongs to others. He who wants 
others to give but will not give himself, begrudges what belongs to himself. He 
who wants to give and wishes others to give is a saint. He who will not give and 
does not want others to give is wicked.{\highlight7 <QL>}\par
{\highlight7 @p2}{\highlight7 <*93>}5:14{\highlight7 <LT>}{\highlight7 <EM>}There are four types among those who attend the house of study. He 
who attends but does not practice still receives reward for his attendance. He 
who practices but does not attend receives reward for practicing. He who 
attends and practices is a saint. He who neither attends nor practices is wicked.{\highlight7 <QL>}\par
{\highlight7 @p2}{\highlight7 <*94>}5:15{\highlight7 <LT>}{\highlight7 <EM>}There are four types among those who sit before scholars: a sponge, a 
funnel, a strainer, and a sieve. A sponge, which absorbs everything; a funnel, 
which takes in at one end and lets out at the other; a strainer, which lets the 
wine pass through and retains the sediment; and a sieve, which lets out the 
flour dust and retains the fine flour.{\highlight7 <QL>}\par
{\highlight7 @p2}{\highlight7 <*95>}5:16{\highlight7 <LT>}{\highlight7 <EM>}Any love that depends on a specific factor, will cease once the factor no 
longer exists, but if it does not depend on a specific factor, it will never cease. 
Which love was dependent on a specific factor? The love of Amnon for Tamar. 
Which love did not depend on a specific factor? The love of David and Jona 
than.{\highlight7 <QL>}\par
{\highlight7 @p2}{\highlight7 <*96>}5:17{\highlight7 <LT>}{\highlight7 <EM>}Any controversy which is for the sake of Heaven will result in 
something permanent, but when it is not for the sake of Heaven, it will have 
no permanence. Which controversy was one that was for the sake of Heaven? 
The controversy between Hillel and Shammai. Which controversy was not for 
the sake of Heaven? The controversy of Korach and his company.{\highlight7 <QL>}\par
{\highlight7 @p2}{\highlight7 <*97>}5:18{\highlight7 <LT>}{\highlight7 <EM>}Whoever leads the people to righteousness, no sin will occur through 
him. Whoever leads the people to sin, will be given no opportunity to repent. 
Moses was righteous and led the people to righteousnessÐthe people’s righ 
teousness is attributed to him, as it is said: “He performed the righteousness of 
God, and his righteous ordinances are with Israel” ({\highlight7 <IT>}Deuteronomy{\highlight7 <ITC>} 33:21). 
Yeravam the son of Nevat, sinned and led the people to sinÐthe sin of the 
people is attributed to him, as it says: “Because of the sins of Yeravam which he 
committed and caused Israel to sin” ({\highlight7 <IT>}1 Kings{\highlight7 <ITC>} 15:30).{\highlight7 <QL>}\par
{\highlight7 @p2}{\highlight7 <*98>}5:19{\highlight7 <LT>}{\highlight7 <EM>}Whoever possesses these three qualities is among the disciples of our 
father Abraham; and three other qualities distinguish the disciples of the 
wicked Biliam. A good eye [a generous nature], a humble spirit, and an unde 
manding soul, are the characteristics of the disciples of our father Abraham. An 
evil eye [a grudging nature], a haughty spirit, and a demanding soul [excessive 
desire] are the characteristics of the disciples of the wicked Biliam. What is the 
difference between the disciples of our father Abraham and the disciples of the 
wicked Biliam? The disciples of our father Abraham enjoy this world and 
inherit the World to Come, as it says: “That I may cause those who love Me to 
inherit substance (wealth), and I will fill their treasuries” ({\highlight7 <IT>}Proverbs{\highlight7 <ITC>} 8:21). The 
disciples of the wicked Biliam inherit Gehennom and descend into the pit of 
destruction, as it is said: “You, God, will bring them down into the pit of 
destruction; men of murder and deceit will not live out half their days, but I 
trust in You” ({\highlight7 <IT>}Psalms{\highlight7 <ITC>} 55:24).{\highlight7 <QL>}\par
{\highlight7 @p2}{\highlight7 <*99>}5:20{\highlight7 <LT>}{\highlight7 <EM>}Yehudah ben Teima, says: “Be bold as a leopard, light as an eagle, swift 
as a deer, and strong as a lion to do the will of your Father in heaven.” He used 
to say: “The arrogant is destined for Gehennom, but the shamefaced is des 
tined for Gan Eden. May it be Your will, God, and God of our fathers, that the 
Bais HaMikdash be rebuilt in our days, and give us our portion in Your Torah.”{\highlight7 <QL>}\par
{\highlight7 @p2}{\highlight7 <*100>}5:21{\highlight7 <LT>}{\highlight7 <EM>}He used to say: at five years (the age is reached for the study of{\highlight7 <HS>}) the 
Scriptures; at ten (for the study of{\highlight7 <HS>}) the Mishna; at thirteen (for the fulfillment 
of{\highlight7 <HS>}) the mitzvos; at fifteen (for the study of{\highlight7 <HS>}) the Talmud; at eighteen for 
marriage; at twenty for pursuit; at thirty for physical strength; at forty for 
understanding; at fifty for (giving) counsel; at sixty (he attains old age); at 
seventy fulfillment of years; at eighty (he attains spiritual) strength; at ninety, 
he is bending over (the grave); at one hundred, he is as if he were already dead 
and gone and departed from the world.{\highlight7 <QL>}\par
{\highlight7 @p2}{\highlight7 <*101>}5:22{\highlight7 <LT>}{\highlight7 <EM>}Ben Bagbag says: Deliberate over it (the study of Torah) again and again 
for everything is contained in it; and through it you will view (the truth); grow 
old and aged over it and do not depart from it, because there is nothing more 
excellent than it.{\highlight7 <QL>}\par
{\highlight7 @p2}{\highlight7 <*102>}5:23{\highlight7 <LT>}{\highlight7 <EM>}Ben Haihai says: The reward is according to the suffering.{\highlight7 <QL>}\par
{\highlight7 @pc}{\highlight7 <IL12>}{\highlight7 <IR12>}{\highlight7 @p1}{\highlight7 <*103>}{\highlight7 @pc}Chapter 6{\highlight7 <QC>}\par
{\highlight7 @ky}{\highlight7 <IL0>}{\highlight7 <IR0>}{\highlight7 <*104>}The Sages taught (the following) in the style of the Mishna, blessed be He who 
chose them and their teaching.{\highlight7 <QL>}\par
{\highlight7 @p1}{\highlight7 <*105>}6:1{\highlight7 <LT>}{\highlight7 <EM>}Rabbi Meir says: He who occupies himself with the Torah for its own sake 
acquires many things and he alone is sufficient for the existence of the entire 
world. He (who is so occupied) is called beloved friend; he loves God, he loves 
mankind; he is a joy to God and a joy to mankind. The Torah clothes him with 
humility and reverence; it enables him to be righteous, saintly, upright and 
trustworthy. It keeps him from sin and draws him to virtue. Men gain, through 
him, the benefits of counsel, sound wisdom, understanding and strength, for 
it is said: “Counsel and sound wisdom are mine (the Torah’s), I (the Torah) am 
understanding, might is mine” ({\highlight7 <IT>}Proverbs{\highlight7 <ITC>} 8:14). The Torah bestows upon him 
royalty and dominion (he will be accepted and trusted as a leader) and a 
discerning judge (his decisions will be sought after and accepted). The secrets 
of the Torah are revealed to him and he becomes like an everflowing spring, 
and like a river that constantly grows in vigor. He becomes modest, patient and 
forgiving (of insults) and it (the Torah) makes him great and raises him above 
all creatures.{\highlight7 <QL>}\par
{\highlight7 @p2}{\highlight7 <*106>}6:2{\highlight7 <LT>}{\highlight7 <EM>}Rabbi Yehoshua ben Levi said: Every day a heavenly voice goes forth 
from Mount Horeb, proclaiming these words: “Woe to them, to mankind for 
their disregard of the Torah” for whoever does not occupy himself with the 
Torah is considered rebuked, as it is said: “As a golden ring in a swine’s snout, 
so is a beautiful woman that turns aside from discretion” ({\highlight7 <IT>}Proverbs{\highlight7 <ITC>} 11:22). And 
it is said: “The Tablets are the work of God and the writing is the writing of God 
engraved (Charuth) upon the Tablets” ({\highlight7 <IT>}Exodus{\highlight7 <ITC>} 32:16). Do not read “charuth” 
(engraved) but “cheruth” (freedom), for man is never more free than when he 
occupies himself with the study of Torah. Anyone who occupies himself with 
the study of the Torah will be exalted for it is said: “From ‘Mattanah’ (the gift 
of God, i.e. Torah) one attains ‘Nachaliel’ (the heritage of God), and from 
‘Nachaliel’ one is raised to ‘Bamoth’ (high places)” ({\highlight7 <IT>}Numbers{\highlight7 <ITC>} 21:19).{\highlight7 <QL>}\par
{\highlight7 @p2}{\highlight7 <*107>}6:3{\highlight7 <LT>}{\highlight7 <EM>}He who learns from his companion, even one chapter, one rule, one 
verse, one word, or even one letter, is obliged to treat him with respect. For so 
we find concerning David, King of Israel, who learned only two things from 
Achitophel and yet he called him his master, his guide, and his intimate friend, 
as it is said: “You are my master, my guide and intimate friend” ({\highlight7 <IT>}Psalms{\highlight7 <ITC>} 55:14). 
Now, we may infer as follows: If David, King of Israel, who learned only two 
things from Achitofel, addressed him as master, guide and intimate friend, 
how much more ought one who learns from his companion one chapter, one 
rule, one verse, one word or even one letter, treat him with honor. Honor is 
implicit only in reference to the Torah, as it is said: “The wise shall inherit 
honor” ({\highlight7 <IT>}Proverbs{\highlight7 <ITC>} 3:35), “and men of integrity shall inherit that which is good” 
({\highlight7 <IT>}Proverbs{\highlight7 <ITC>} 28:10). “That which is good,” implies Torah, as it is said: “I have given 
you good instruction, forsake not my Torah” ({\highlight7 <IT>}Proverbs{\highlight7 <ITC>} 4:2).{\highlight7 <QL>}\par
{\highlight7 @p2}{\highlight7 <*108>}6:4{\highlight7 <LT>}{\highlight7 <EM>}This is the pathway of Torah: eat bread with salt, drink water by measure, 
sleep upon the bare earth, live a life of hardship and toil in the study of Torah. 
If you follow this path, “you will be fortunate and it will be well with you” 
({\highlight7 <IT>}Psalms{\highlight7 <ITC>} 128:2). “You will be fortunate,” in this life and “it will be well with 
you” in the World to Come.{\highlight7 <QL>}\par
{\highlight7 @p2}{\highlight7 <*109>}6:5{\highlight7 <LT>}{\highlight7 <EM>}Do not seek greatness for yourself and do not crave honor. Let your deeds 
(mitzvos) exceed your learning and do not aspire after the table of kings. For 
your table is greater than theirs and your crown is more illustrious than theirs. 
Your Master is trustwothy to pay the reward for your work.{\highlight7 <QL>}\par
{\highlight7 @p2}{\highlight7 <*110>}6:6{\highlight7 <LT>}{\highlight7 <EM>}The (crown of) Torah is more glorious than (the crowns of) Priesthood 
and royalty. For while royalty is acquired by thirty qualifications and the 
Priesthood by twenty four, the Torah must be acquired by fortyeight qualifi 
cations, namely: study, attentive listening, orderly speech, understanding, 
intuitive insight, awe, reverence, humility, joy, purity, attendance on scholars, 
debate with colleagues, discussion with students, deliberation, knowledge of 
the Scriptures and of the Mishnah, moderation in business affairs, moderation 
in worldly affairs, moderation in pleasure, moderation in sleep, moderation in 
conversation, moderation in frivolity, patience, good naturedness, trust in the 
Sages, uncomplaining acceptance of suffering. (Torah is acquired also by him), 
who: knows his place; is content with his lot in life; limits his words; does not 
claim credit for his achievements; is beloved; loves God; loves mankind; loves 
acts of charity and kindness; loves straightforwardness; loves admonition; 
shuns honor; is not conceited with his learning; does not delight in dictating 
decisions; shares the burden of his fellowman; and judges him favorably; 
directs him to the truth; and to peace; is composed in his learning; asks 
pertinent questions and answers to the point; listens and adds to his learning; 
studies in order to teach; studies in order to practice; increases the wisdom of 
his teacher; notes accurately what he has learned; quotes a thing in the name 
of the person who said it. You should know that whoever reports a thing in the 
name of the person who said it brings deliverance to the world; for it is said: 
“And Esther told the king in the name of Mordechai” ({\highlight7 <IT>}Megilas Esther{\highlight7 <ITC>} 2:22).{\highlight7 <QL>}\par
{\highlight7 @p2}{\highlight7 <*111>}6:7{\highlight7 <LT>}{\highlight7 <EM>}Great is the Torah, for it gives life to those who fulfill it, in this world and 
in the World to Come, as it is said: “For they are life to those who find them 
and health to all flesh” ({\highlight7 <IT>}Proverbs{\highlight7 <ITC>} 4:22). And it also says: “It will be health to 
your body and marrow to your bones” ({\highlight7 <IT>}Proverbs{\highlight7 <ITC>} 3:8). It is said: “It is a tree of 
life to those who take hold of it and fortunate are those who support it” 
({\highlight7 <IT>}Proverbs{\highlight7 <ITC>} 3:18). And it is said: “They shall be a graceful garland about your head 
and necklaces around your neck” ({\highlight7 <IT>}Proverbs{\highlight7 <ITC>} 1:9). And it is said: “It shall place a 
graceful garland on your head, and bestow a crown of glory on you” ({\highlight7 <IT>}Proverbs{\highlight7 <ITC>} 
4:9). And it is said: “Through me your days will be multiplied, the years of your 
life will be increased” ({\highlight7 <IT>}Proverbs{\highlight7 <ITC>} 9:11). And it is said: “Length of days are in its 
right hand: wealth and honor are in its left hand” ({\highlight7 <IT>}Proverbs{\highlight7 <ITC>} 3:16). And it is also 
said : “They shall add, to you, length of days and years of life and peace” 
({\highlight7 <IT>}Proverbs{\highlight7 <ITC>} 3:2).{\highlight7 <QL>}\par
{\highlight7 @p2}{\highlight7 <*112>}6:8{\highlight7 <LT>}{\highlight7 <EM>}Rabbi Shimon ben Yehudah (some texts read, ben Menasya) says in the 
name of Rabbi Shimon ben Yochai: Beauty, strength, riches, honor, wisdom, 
old age, fullness of years, and children are becoming to the righteous and 
becoming to the world, as it is said: “Fullness of years is a crown of glory which 
is found in the way of righteousness” ({\highlight7 <IT>}Proverbs{\highlight7 <ITC>} 16:31). And it is said: “Grand 
children are the crown of the old and the glory of children are their fathers” 
({\highlight7 <IT>}Proverbs{\highlight7 <ITC>} 17:6). And it says: “The glory of young men is their strength, and the 
adornment of old men is fullness of years” ({\highlight7 <IT>}Proverbs{\highlight7 <ITC>} 20:29). And it says: “The 
moon will grow pale and the sun ashamed, for God has begun His reign on 
Mount Zion and in Jerusalem, and there will be glory for the elders of his 
people” ({\highlight7 <IT>}Isaiah{\highlight7 <ITC>} 24:25). Rabbi Shimon ben Menasya says: “These seven attri 
butes which the Sages listed as becoming to the righteous were all realized in 
Rebbe (Y ehudah HaNasi) and in his sons.”{\highlight7 <QL>}\par
{\highlight7 @p2}{\highlight7 <*113>}6:9{\highlight7 <LT>}{\highlight7 <EM>}Rabbi Yos{\u233\'3f} ben Kisma said: One time as I was walking on the road a man 
met me and greeted me and I returned his greeting. He said to me: “From 
where do you come?” I replied: “I come from a great city of sages and schol 
ars.” He then said to me: “Rabbi, if you would be willing to live with us in our 
vicinity, I would give you a million golden dinars and precious stones and 
pearls.” I replied: “Were you to give me all the silver, gold, precious stones, and 
pearls in the world, I would not live anywhere except in a place of Torah. For 
similarly it is written in the Book of Psalms, by David, King of Israel: “Thy 
Torah means more to me than thousands in gold and silver” ({\highlight7 <IT>}Psalms{\highlight7 <ITC>} 119:72). 
Furthermore, when a man dies, neither silver nor gold nor precious stones nor 
pearls accompany him. His only accompaniment will be the Torah he studied 
and the good deeds he performed, as it is said: “As you walk, it will guide you; 
when you lie down, it will watch over you; when you awaken; it will speak to 
you” ({\highlight7 <IT>}Proverbs{\highlight7 <ITC>} 6:22). “As you walk, it will guide you”Ðin this world; “when you 
lie down, it will watch over you”Ðin the grave; “when you awaken, it will speak 
to you”Ðin the World to Come. It is also said: “the silver and the gold are Mine, 
says God” ({\highlight7 <IT>}Haggai{\highlight7 <ITC>} 2:8).{\highlight7 <QL>}\par
{\highlight7 @p2}{\highlight7 <*114>}6:10{\highlight7 <LT>}{\highlight7 <EM>}Five possessions has the Holy One, blessed be He, declared His own in 
His world: Torah, Heaven and Earth, Abraham, Israel, and the Holy Temple. 
How do we know that the Torah is considered God’s possession? Because it is 
written: “God created me as His first possession, first of all His works from of 
old” ({\highlight7 <IT>}Proverbs{\highlight7 <ITC>} 8:22). How do we know that heaven and earth are considered His 
possession? Because it is written, “Thus says God: the heaven is my throne, the 
earth is My footstool; what manner of house will you build for Me, and what 
manner of place for My rest” ({\highlight7 <IT>}Isaiah{\highlight7 <ITC>} 66:1). And it is also said: “How numerous 
and varied are Your works, O God, you have made them all with wisdom: the 
earth is filled with Your possessions” ({\highlight7 <IT>}Psalms{\highlight7 <ITC>} 104:24). How do we know that 
Abraham is considered His possession? Because it is written: “And he (Malki 
zedek) blessed him and said: ‘Blessed be Avrom to the most high God, the 
Possessor of heaven a nd earth’” ({\highlight7 <IT>}Genesis{\highlight7 <ITC>} 14:19). How do we know that Israel is 
considered His possession? Because it is written: “Until your people pass over, 
O God, until the people you have acquired pass over” ({\highlight7 <IT>}Exodus{\highlight7 <ITC>} 15:16). And it is 
also written: “The holy ones that are on earth, they are excellent by virtue of 
My will that is achieved through them” ({\highlight7 <IT>}Psalms{\highlight7 <ITC>} 16:3). How do we know that 
the Holy Temple is considered His possession? Because it is written: “The 
dwelling place which You, O God have prepared; the Holy place of God, which 
Your hands have established” ({\highlight7 <IT>}Exodus{\highlight7 <ITC>} 15:17). And it is also written: “He 
brought them to the border of His Holy Place, to the mountain which His right 
hand had acquired” ({\highlight7 <IT>}Psalms{\highlight7 <ITC>} 78:54).{\highlight7 <QL>}\par
{\highlight7 @p2}{\highlight7 <*115>}6:11{\highlight7 <LT>}{\highlight7 <EM>}Whatever the Holy One, blessed be He, created in His world, He created 
only for His glory, as it is said: “Everything that is called by My name, was 
created for My glory: I have formed it, I have made it” ({\highlight7 <IT>}Isaiah{\highlight7 <ITC>} 43:7). It is also 
said: “God shall reign forever and ever” ({\highlight7 <IT>}Exodus{\highlight7 <ITC>} 15:18).{\highlight7 <QL>}\par
{\highlight7 @ky}{\highlight7 @p2}{\highlight7 <*116>}{\highlight7 @ky}Rabbi Chananyah ben Akashyah says: God desired to grant merit to Israel; that 
is why He gave them the Torah and the commandments in such abundance. As 
it is said: “Adonoy desired for the sake of His righteousness to make the Torah 
great and to glorify it” ({\highlight7 <IT>}Isaiah{\highlight7 <ITC>} 42:21).{\highlight7 <QL>}\par
}