{\rtf1\ansi\deftab720\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f3\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fcharset1 Arial;}{\f5\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f6\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f7\fcharset1 Davidd;}}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red192\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green0\blue160;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue0;}
\deflang1033\pard\par\plain\par\ql \par\ql \lang1033\ltrch\f6\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf6\cb14\ 36\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ he is the one who served in the Temple that Solomon built\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  Some explain that Azariah was the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ first Azariah, and from Azariah to Seraiah, who lived at the time of the destruction of the Temple, 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ were eight priests. Accordingly, they emended in \lang1033\ltrch\f3\fs30\b0\i\ul0\cf3\cb11\ Yoma\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  in the first chapter (9a), and in \lang1033\ltrch\f3\fs30\b0\i\ul0\cf3\cb11\ Leviticus Rabbah 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ (21:9), and in \lang1033\ltrch\f3\fs30\b0\i\ul0\cf3\cb11\ Siphre\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ , \lang1033\ltrch\f3\fs30\b0\i\ul0\cf3\cb11\ parashath Phineas\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  (Num. 25:12), that eight high priests served in the First Temple. 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Some say that there were eighteen. But neither one is a viable theory because Zadok was the first who 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ ministered in the time of Solomon. Moreover, which Amariah was in the days of Jehoshaphat, about 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ whom it is written (II Chron 19:11): “... and behold, Amariah the head priest”? Now he was Amariah 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ the son of Azariah, who lived in the days of Uzziah and in the days of Hezekiah, who was after 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Jehoshaphat. If you say [that it was] Azariah the father of Seraiah, then where was Hilkiah the High 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Priest who lived in the days of Josiah? Rather we must count from Zadok, and there were twelve 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ priests from Zadok until Seraiah, and so we find in an exact version of \lang1033\ltrch\f3\fs30\b0\i\ul0\cf3\cb11\ Leviticus Rabbah\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ . Now that which 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ the Scripture writes: “... he was the one who served in the Temple,” is explained in \lang1033\ltrch\f3\fs30\b0\i\ul0\cf3\cb11\ Sefer Yerushalmi 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ (source unknown. Perhaps \lang1033\ltrch\f3\fs30\b0\i\ul0\cf3\cb11\ Sifre Zuta, Korah\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  18:7 is meant) as follows: Did he alone serve, and did he 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ serve in the days of Solomon? Did not other priests serve as well? But because he risked his life for the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ sanctity of the Temple by not allowing Uzziah to burn incense, it is said: “he was the one who served 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ in the Temple that Solomon built,” and he was the Azariah who lived in the days of Uzziah (ibid. 26: 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ 17, 20) and in the days of Hezekiah, and Azariah the son of Ahimaaz was Amariah the priest who 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ served in the days of Jehoshaphat, just as Uzziah is called Azariah, as is written (II Ki. 15:1): “In the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ twenty-seventh year of Jeroboam etc, Azariah... became king.” And Azariah the son of Ahimaaz was 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ called Zechariah, as it is written (II Chron. 26:5): “And he was wont to seek God in the days of 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Zechariah who understood the fear of God, etc.”  
\par \par }

