{\rtf1\ansi\deftab720\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f3\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fcharset1 Arial;}{\f5\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f6\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f7\fcharset1 Davidd;}{\f50\fcharset1 Davidd;}}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red192\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green0\blue160;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue0;}
\deflang1033\pard\par\plain\par\ql \par\ql \lang1033\ltrch\f6\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf6\cb14\ 29\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ And in Gibeon dwelt the leader of Gibeon\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  This section until (verse 38): ì...all these were the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ sons of Azel,î is written twice in this Book. Also the section (9:2): ìAnd the first settlers, who were in 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ their inheritance in their cities,î and the section (9:10): ìAnd of the priests: Jedaiah and Jehoiribî are 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ likewise in the Book of Nehemiah, as it is written (11: 3): ìAnd these are the heads of the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ province.î This is what is explained at the end of Megillath Yerushalmi. Ezra found scrolls: the scroll 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ of \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Ó¿ÚÂ…ƒÈÌ\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ , the scroll of \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Ê«‡«ËÂÃË≈È\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  and the scrolls of \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ ‰»‡«ÁƒÈÌ\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ , and they rejected the words of the one and 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ accepted the words of the two. Likewise, they found many genealogical records. When they found 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ three or five, they rejected the minority and accepted the majority. When they found an even number, 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ e.g. ìAnd in Gibeon dwelt the leader of Gibeon,î he had to write it twice because the order of their 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ genealogy is not uniform, and likewise, [in] ìthe first settlers,î he found an even number, which 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ differed one from the other. [Therefore], it was written twice: here and in his [Ezraís] book. Now why 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ did he not write both of them here, including those that are in Ezra: "And these are the heads of the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ province, etc."? Because he traced the genealogy there until, ìAnd these are the priests and the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Levites,î and he traced the genealogy here until Jedaiah, who was after Ezra. Now what purpose 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ would it have to explain and to trace the genealogy here in Chronicles, the generations and the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ genealogy after Ezra, except for those who were alive during the First Temple period? 
\par \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  
\par \par }

