{\rtf1\ansi\deftab720\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f3\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fcharset1 Arial;}{\f5\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f6\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f7\fcharset1 Davidd;}{\f50\fcharset1 Davidd;}}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red192\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green0\blue160;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue0;}
\deflang1033\pard\par\plain\par\ql \par\ql \lang1033\ltrch\f6\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf6\cb14\ 8\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ Give thanks to the Lord, call out in His name\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  They sang this psalm on that day before the Ark. 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ And it [the psalm] is also written in the Book of Psalms (105:1-15), but there is a slight difference in 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ some words. The contents, however, are the same. There it goes on until ìand do not harm My 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ prophets.î That is indeed the conclusion of the psalm, commencing: ìGive thanks to the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Lord,î for ìSing to the Lord, all the earth,î is a different psalm. That psalm is also found in the Book 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ of Psalms (96), but there is a slight difference. The contents, however, are the same. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ Give thanks to 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ the Lord\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  [These are] Davidís words to the singers and to the congregation. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ call out in His name\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  Call 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ out, ìO Lord, O Lord! May He help His Ark.î A similar instance (I Kings 18:24): ìAnd you will call in 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ the name of your deity, and I shall call in the name of the Lord.î The expression of calling out is 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ appropriate in connection with the Lord because He performs wonders. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ make His exploits known 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ among the peoples\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  - Heb. \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ ‰Â…„ƒÈÚÂÃ ·»Ú«ÓÃƒÈÌ Ú¬ÏƒÈÏÂ…˙»ÈÂ\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ . This refers to the exploits that He exploited the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Philistines concerning the matter of the Ark.  
\par \par }

