{\rtf1\ansi\deftab720\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f3\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fcharset1 Arial;}{\f5\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f6\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f7\fcharset1 Davidd;}{\f50\fcharset1 Davidd;}}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red192\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green0\blue160;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue0;}
\deflang1033\pard\par\plain\par\ql \par\ql \lang1033\ltrch\f6\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf6\cb14\ 5\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ And the greater House\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  He overlaid the entire House with pure gold. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ he overlaid with juniper 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ wood\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  - Heb. \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ òÂöÅé áÀøåÉùÌÑÄéí\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ . [This translation follows Yehuda Feliks, \lang1033\ltrch\f3\fs30\b0\i\ul0\cf3\cb11\ Nature & Man in the Bible\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ , pp.110f.] 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ For the entire House, the Debir and the Heichal, he first overlaid with juniper wood, and 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ afterwards, “he overlaid it with fine gold” over the walls of juniper, and because of the overlaying of 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ gold, with which he wished to overlay the House, he overlaid it first with wood in order that the gold 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ would adhere firmly, for he would reinforce the gold with nails, with the decorations of the wood, for 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ he made decorations in the wood. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ palm trees\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  - Heb. \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ úÌÄîÌøÄéí\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ . They are trees like a sort of palm trees 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ and cherubim, and in I Kings (6:32) it is written: “and he carved upon them carvings of cherubim and 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ palm trees and open flowers \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ (åÌôÀèåÌøÅé öÄöÌÄéí)\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ ,” like (Num. 17:23) "and it sprouted fruit \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ (åÇéÌÈöÅõ öÄéõ)\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ . 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ And \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ ôÀèåÌøÅé\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  is like "A man frees \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ (ôÌåÉèÅø)\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  his wife (\lang1033\ltrch\f3\fs30\b0\i\ul0\cf3\cb11\ entwerfen\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  in Middle High German). (From Rabbi 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Eliezer the son of Rabbi Meshullam of blessed memory.) \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ and he overlaid it with gold\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  i.e., When he 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ made all the decorations, he overlaid the walls with gold after the decorations, and he reinforced them 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ with nails in the wooden wall, in order that it should not move; which is something that he could not 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ do on a stone wall. For this reason, he overlaid the entire House with juniper wood. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ and chains\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  He 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ made many decorations, filling it completely, and when he saw that there was any blank space 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ between one decoration and another, he painted a decoration like a sort of chain, with which things 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ are connected, so did he do here between one decoration and another, in order that there should be no 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ blank space in between. Another interpretation is that he made real golden chains and connected the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ shapes together with them.  
\par \par }

