{\rtf1\ansi\deftab720\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f3\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fcharset1 Arial;}{\f5\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f6\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f7\fcharset1 Davidd;}}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red192\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green0\blue160;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue0;}
\deflang1033\pard\par\plain\par\ql \par\ql \lang1033\ltrch\f6\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf6\cb14\ 10\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ And on the twenty-third day of the seventh month, he dismissed the people\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  which was the ninth 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ [day] of the inauguration of the Temple, but in I Kings (8:66) it is written: “On the eighth day,” which 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ was the twenty-second of the month. The meaning is: On the eighth day he gave them permission to 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ leave after the Feast, and on the morrow, when the Feast was over, they all went [home] together. 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Another meaning: On the eighth day he gave them permission and dismissed those who lived within 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ the Sabbath limits and whoever wished to travel and go on that day in that limit, and on the following 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ day, he dismissed the entire populace. In \lang1033\ltrch\f3\fs30\b0\i\ul0\cf3\cb11\ Genesis Rabbah\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  (35:3) it is explained that they took his leave 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ but waited there one more day and then they repeated [this procedure] and took leave again a second 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ time; therefore it is said: “on the twenty-third day of the month.” \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ rejoicing and delighted of heart, 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ etc. for David, for Solomon\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  For that which He spoke with His mouth above (I Chron 28:6): “Your 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ son Solomon - he shall build My House,” He fulfilled with His hand, for He gave him a son sitting on 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ his throne, who built a House in the name of the Lord. And in \lang1033\ltrch\f3\fs30\b0\i\ul0\cf3\cb11\ Genesis Rabbah\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  it is explained: Said Rabbi 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Levi: It is written: “for the inauguration of, etc.” "Rejoicing" refers to “that the Lord had wrought for 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ David,” viz. that He fulfilled that which He had vowed to Solomon, that He chose him from all his 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ brothers because he was wise. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ and for Israel His people\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  it is written in I Kings (8:56): “there has not 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ failed one word, etc.” Another explanation: “and for Israel His people” - they had a ruler, so that they 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ dwelt safely and tranquilly, as it is written (ibid. 5:5): “And Judah and Israel dwelt, etc.”  
\par \par }

