{\rtf1\ansi\deftab720\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f3\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fcharset1 Arial;}{\f5\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f6\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f7\fcharset1 Davidd;}}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red192\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green0\blue160;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue0;}
\deflang1033\pard\par\plain\par\ql \par\ql \lang1033\ltrch\f5\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf5\cb13\ Chapter 13\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  
\par \lang1033\ltrch\f6\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf6\cb14\ 2\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ Three years he reigned in Jerusalem\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  and no more, as is proven in I Kings (15:9): “And in the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ twentieth year of Jeroboam, king of Israel, Asa reigned over Judah.” We find that he did not reign 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ even three whole years. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ Micaiah the daughter of Uriel\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  And above (11:20), he calls her by a different 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ name, Maacah the daughter of Absalom, and in I Kings (15:10), it is likewise written “Maacah the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ daughter of Absalom.” Micaiah the daughter of Uriel was her [real] name, and here he calls her thus 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ because this is the genealogical record of Judah. In Kings, which is the book of the kings of Israel and 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Judah, he calls her by her nickname, Maacah the daughter of Absalom. Now, for this reason, they 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ nicknamed her Maacah, rather than call her by her real name, Micaiah, (and the name of her father 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ was Uriel Abishalom). She was called by the name of her daughter-in-law, who was a valiant woman, 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ a heroic woman, as it is written (below 15:16): “And also Maacah the mother of King Asa he removed 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ from being queen,” and in honor of her daughter-in-law, they called the mother-in-law by the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ daughter-in-law’s name. So it is explained in \lang1033\ltrch\f3\fs30\b0\i\ul0\cf3\cb11\ Yerushalmi\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  (unknown). Now this tradition is in the name of 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Rabbi Eliezer, and he told me this in the name of his father, and so I found in his father’s commentary: 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Wherever a “vav” is added to the name of a woman, this is to her praise, like Athaliah (below 22: 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ 12): “and Athaliah reigned over the land,” for she was a valiant woman; similarly Jecaliah (ibid. 26:3) 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ and Jecaliahu (II Kings 15:2), because she was a heroic woman, for Amaziah her husband fled to 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Lachish and was there fifteen years until he died, and she judged the people all those fifteen years, and 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ later, when he died, they crowned his son Uzziah after him at the age of sixteen.  
\par \par }

