{\rtf1\ansi\deftab720\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f3\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fcharset1 Arial;}{\f5\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f6\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f7\fcharset1 Davidd;}{\f50\fcharset1 Davidd;}}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red192\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green0\blue160;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue0;}
\deflang1033\pard\par\plain\par\ql \par\ql \lang1033\ltrch\f6\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf6\cb14\ 10\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ she arose and destroyed\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  - Heb. \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ åÇúÌÀãÇáÌÅø\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ , an expression of \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ ãÌÆáÆø\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ , pestilence. In II Kings (11:1), it is 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ written: \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ åÇúÌÀàÇáÌÅã\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ . Concerning this generation, David recited: (Ps. 12:1): “For the conductor on the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ sheminith,” for David foresaw with the holy spirit that in the eighth generation [of his dynasty] all his 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ descendants would be slain by Athaliah, for there are eight generations from Solomon till here. And he 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ prayed that his seed would survive for a remembrance, and said, (ibid. verse 2): “Save, O Lord, for the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ pious are gone, etc.” In II Kings (11:2), Scripture states that she killed them by poisoning them, for it is 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ written: “and she stole him away from the dying \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ (äÇîÀîåÉúÄéí)\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  children of the king”; we read: \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ äÇîÌåÌîÈúÄéí 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ the slain. Both the traditional reading and the masoretic text have authority. \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ äÇîÌåÌîÈúÄéí\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  means that they 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ already died, and the masoretic text in which the word used is \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ äÇîÀîåÉúÄéí\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  means that they were dying in 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ agony. This is written in the continuous present tense, i.e., not all at once but continuously being 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ crushed by illnesses, and then dying. An example is (Jer. 16:4): “Dying of \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ (îÀîåÉúÅé)\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  sicknesses they shall 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ die, etc. and with famine,” because they too will not die immediately.  
\par \par }

