{\rtf1\ansi\deftab720\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f3\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fcharset1 Arial;}{\f5\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f6\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f7\fcharset1 Davidd;}}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red192\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green0\blue160;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue0;}
\deflang1033\pard\par\plain\par\ql \par\ql \lang1033\ltrch\f6\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf6\cb14\ 27\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ And from the time that Amaziah turned away from following the Lord\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  and was immediately 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ defeated by the king of Israel. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ they conspired against him in Jerusalem\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  to kill him, because each 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ one was grieved over his son, his brother, and his kinsman who were slain because of him, because he 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ provoked the king of Israel. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ and he fled to Lachish\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  a fortified city against which Sennacherib waged 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ war. He fled to Lachish, where he remained fifteen years until they followed him to Lachish and 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ assassinated him there. And during those fifteen years that he was in Lachish, Jecoliah, Uzziah’s 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ mother, reigned in his stead. This is how it appears to me. In the commentary of Rabbi Joseph (Kara), I 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ saw that during those fifteen years that he was in Lachish, Uzziah his son reigned in his stead, but it is 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ incorrect to interpret it in this manner, for it is written immediately following (26:1): “who was sixteen 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ years old.” We find that when his father fled, he was only one year old. Moreover, if this is the case, it 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ should say, “took Uzziah and made him king instead of his father during his lifetime.” Rather, 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Scripture intimated that he did not reign during his father’s lifetime. 
\par \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  
\par \par }

