{\rtf1\ansi\deftab720\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f3\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fcharset1 Arial;}{\f5\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f6\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f7\fcharset1 Davidd;}}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red192\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green0\blue160;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue0;}
\deflang1033\pard\par\plain\par\ql \par\ql \lang1033\ltrch\f5\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf5\cb13\ Chapter 27\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  
\par \lang1033\ltrch\f6\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf6\cb14\ 2\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ as all that his father Uzziah\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  the good deeds that his father had done. That is what R. Simeon ben 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Yohai said in Tractate \lang1033\ltrch\f3\fs30\b0\i\ul0\cf3\cb11\ Sotah\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  (sic. Should be \lang1033\ltrch\f3\fs30\b0\i\ul0\cf3\cb11\ Sukkah\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  45b): If Abraham would take upon himself all the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ sins of the generations until his time, I would take upon myself the sins of the generations from 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Abraham until my time. And if Jotham the son of Uzziah were with me, we would take upon ourselves 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ the sins of all the generations from Abraham until the end of all generations, for in all the kings before 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ him and after him we find sin, except in Jotham. Concerning David it is written, (I Kings 15:5): “Only 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ concerning the matter of Uriah the Hittite”; concerning Solomon it is written, (ibid. 11:4): “His wives 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ turned his heart away”; Rehoboam forsook the Lord’s Torah; Abijah (ibid. 15:3): “went in all his 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ father’s sins”; Asa took silver and gold from the treasuries of the House of the Lord and put the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ prophet in prison; Jehoshaphat associated with a wicked man (Ahab and his son Ahaziah); Joram 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ killed his brother; Ahaziah’s mother advised him to sin; Joash killed Zechariah and was [later punished 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ by being] sexually molested (\lang1033\ltrch\f3\fs30\b0\i\ul0\cf3\cb11\ Yer. Kid.\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  1:7); Amaziah prostrated himself before the graven images of 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Seir; Uzziah entered the Temple to burn incense; Ahaz went in the ways of the kings of Israel and also 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ made monuments for the baalim; Hezekiah became haughty and there was anger upon him, and the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ sages did not concur with him on three things that he did (\lang1033\ltrch\f3\fs30\b0\i\ul0\cf3\cb11\ Pes.\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  4:9); Manasseh did evil in the eyes of 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ the Lord; Josiah did not heed the words of prophecy from God; Zedekiah did evil in the eyes of the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Lord and did not humble himself before Jeremiah (below 36:12). In Jotham, however, no trace of sin 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ was found. (R. Eliezer the son of Moses told me this.) \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ the people were still acting corruptly\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  as it is 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ written in II Kings (15:35): “the people were still slaughtering and burning incense [on the high 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ places].”  
\par \par }

