{\rtf1\ansi\deftab720\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f3\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fcharset1 Arial;}{\f5\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f6\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f7\fcharset1 Davidd;}{\f50\fcharset1 Davidd;}}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red192\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green0\blue160;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue0;}
\deflang1033\pard\par\plain\par\ql \par\ql \lang1033\ltrch\f5\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf5\cb13\ Chapter 21\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  
\par \lang1033\ltrch\f6\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf6\cb14\ 1\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ it is for Saul\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  [It is] for the wrong [done] to Saul, for he was buried suddenly and secretively since 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ the people of Jabesh Gilead smuggled him out and buried him without eulogizing him in a manner 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ befitting him. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ and (also) for his bloody house\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  For having killed Nob the priestly city (I Sam. 22:19). 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ because he put to death the Gibeonites.\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  When he [Saul] murdered the priestly city of Nob he killed 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ seven of them [Gibeonites]; two wood cutters and two water drawers, an attendant, a carrier, and a 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ scribe. In this manner it is explained in the Palestinian Talmud Tractate Sanhedrin. But our rabbis (i.e., 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ of T.B.) stated, since he slew the priests who had provided them [the Gibeonites] with food, scripture 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ considers it as though he had slain them. Now do not wonder that the Holy One Blessed be He 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ demands his honor and [simultaneously] demands punishment for his sin, for so it is written: “that 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ have executed his judgment \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ (אשר משפטו פעלו)\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  ” (Zeph. 2:3). Where there is found his judgment there 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ can also be found his execution.  
\par \par }

