{\rtf1\ansi\deftab720\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f3\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fcharset1 Arial;}{\f5\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f6\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f7\fcharset1 Davidd;}{\f50\fcharset1 Davidd;}}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red192\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green0\blue160;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue0;}
\deflang1033\pard\par\plain\par\ql \par\ql \lang1033\ltrch\f6\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf6\cb14\ 2\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ and he said to them\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  Words of appeasement in order that they forgo retaliation and pardon Saul and 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ his household. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ Now the Gibeonites were not of the children of Israel\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  That is, they exhibited the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ characteristic of being merciless [which gave indication] that they are not of the seed of Abraham. As 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ a result David decreed upon them that they may not enter the [Israelite] community. He said: This 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ [Israelite] nation possesses three signs; they are compassionate, they are bashful, and they are 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ benevolent. [Only] whosoever possesses these three virtues is worthy of joining it. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ had sworn to them 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ In the days of Joshua when they were appointed wood cutters and water drawers for the altar. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ in his 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ zeal for the sake of the children\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  When he made up his mind [lit., his heart] to cleanse and purify 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Israel and to provide for their needs, be sought to kill them. Now the \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ ÷ðàä\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  of the verse is meant in a 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ positive sense, similar to: “are you zealous \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ (äî÷ðà)\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  for my sake” (Num. 11:29) or: “my zeal \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ (á÷ðàúé) 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ for God” (2 Kings 10:16) mentioned in connection with Jehu. This is the simple explanation. 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ According to the Midrashic explanation, however, he commanded only to kill the priests, thus the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ envy stated here is not for good but for bad. He knew that his kingdom would be discontinued from 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ the day he failed to heed the command of the Holy One Blessed be He concerning the Amalekites and 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ there upon became jealous of them [the priests who had harbored David].  
\par \par }

