{\rtf1\ansi\deftab720\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f3\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fcharset1 Arial;}{\f5\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f6\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f7\fcharset1 Davidd;}{\f50\fcharset1 Davidd;}}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red192\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green0\blue160;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue0;}
\deflang1033\pard\par\plain\par\ql \par\ql \lang1033\ltrch\f6\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf6\cb14\ 9\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ sum of the number\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  If sum why number? And if number, why sum? Joab made two lists, a long and a 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ short one. He said: I shall show him the short one but if he gets angry then I will show him the longer 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ one. This is why it says \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ îô÷ã\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  which is an expression of lacking. So it is explicated in the Pesikta. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ and 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ Israel consisted\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  Heb. \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ åúäé\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ . Their strength ebbed as that of a female. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ eight hundred thousand valiant 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ men\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  Now in I Chronicles 21:5 it is written “one million, one hundred thousand.” In the Aggadah of the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Amoraim [the post-Mishnaic rabbis of the Talmud] we find: R. Joshua the son of Levi said: The verses 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ add here what they omitted elsewhere, [i.e.,] the two tribes that were not counted, for it is written in I 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Chronicles (2:6): But Levi and Benjamin he did not number among them; for the king’s word was 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ abominable to Joab. Joab said, From these I can free myself by claiming that the tribe of Levi is not [to 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ be] counted among the other tribes but from one month and above [while the other tribes were 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ counted from ages twenty to fifty]. Now concerning Benjamin it is enough that they were diminished 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ and [nearly] destroyed in the incident of the Concubine in Gibeah (Jud. Ch. 20). Also in the thirty-two 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ rules [of interpretation] of R. Eliezer the son of Rabbi Yosi of Galilee we learned: One verse states 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ that “all of Israel were one million and one hundred thousand...and Judah was four hundred seventy 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ thousand [men],” while another verse states that “Israel consisted of eight hundred thousand... and the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ men of Judah were five hundred thousand.” We thus find a discrepancy of three hundred thousand 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ between them. What is to be said concerning these three hundred thousand? Comes the third verse (in 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ I Chron. 27:1) and clarifies “And the children of Israel after their number, the heads of father’s houses 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ and the captains of thousands and of hundreds and their officers that served the king, in any matter of 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ the divisions which came in and went out month by month throughout all the months of the year of 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ each division were twenty-four thousand.” We learn from here that these three hundred thousand 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ were written in the royal record and required no [additional] accounting. How [do we derive this 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ sum]? Twenty-four thousand [multiplied] by twelve [tribes] totals two hundred and eighty-eight 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ thousand leaving twelve thousand who were the rulers of Israel.”  
\par \par }

