{\rtf1\ansi\deftab720\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f3\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fcharset1 Arial;}{\f5\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f6\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f7\fcharset1 Davidd;}{\f50\fcharset1 Davidd;}}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red192\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green0\blue160;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue0;}
\deflang1033\pard\par\plain\par\ql \par\ql \lang1033\ltrch\f6\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf6\cb14\ 3\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ From the Shihor\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  i.e., the Nile synonymous with the brook of Egypt. It adjoins the southwestern 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ border of Eretz Israel, as is stated in ì\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Â¿‡≈ÏÃ∆‰ Ó«Ò¿Ú≈È\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ .î We learn here that in Joshuaís lifetime, he did not 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ conquer the entire southern border, except from the desert of Zin [which is the divided smooth mount 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ that goes up to Seir] to the Nile. This is the boundary of Gaza which is stated above: ìFrom Kadesh 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Barnea to Gaza.î \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ to the border of Ekron northward\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  The 'Ekronites dwell by the sea and spread out 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ farther northward than the others. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ which is counted to the Canaanites\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  i.e., It is a part of the land of 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Canaan which I gave to Abraham. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ the five lords of the Philistines\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  This is the end of the border to the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Mediterranean Sea which is in the west. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ the Gazathites, and the Ashdodites, etc.\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  He enumerates six, 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ yet in the beginning he calls them five. Said Rabbi Johanan: [He counts] their prominent ones. The 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ prominent ones were five, for he does not count the 'Avim among the prominent lords. We may also 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ explain thus: The five lords of the Philistines: The Gazathites, and the Ashdodites, and the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Ashkelonites, and the Gittites, and the Ekronites, these are the five. And there also remained to 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ conquer, the land of the 'Avim who are not of the Philistines.  
\par \par }

