{\rtf1\ansi\deftab720\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f3\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fcharset1 Arial;}{\f5\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f6\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f7\fcharset1 Davidd;}}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red192\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green0\blue160;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue0;}
\deflang1033\pard\par\plain\par\ql \par\ql \lang1033\ltrch\f6\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf6\cb14\ 7\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ A little child\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  He was twelve years old. And this is your figuring. And he called his name Jedidjah 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ [Solomon] (Samuel II 12:25). At the same time Amnon violated Tamar, as it says “And it was after 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ this, and Absalom had a sister, etc.” At the end of two years “And Absalom had sheepshearers, 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ etc.,” and he killed Amnon. And Absalom fled and went to Geshur, and was there three years, so we 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ have five years. And Absalom returned to Jerusalem, “and dwelt in Jerusalem two years” (Samuel II 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ 14:28) so we have seven years in Solomon’s life. And he [Absalom] rebelled against his father and was 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ killed. After this (Samuel II 21:1) “And there was famine in the days of David three years,” so we 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ have ten. In the eleventh year he counted the Israelites and they scattered in all the land nine months 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ (Samuel II 24:8). In the year of his death he instituted divisions [among the priests and Levites] as it 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ says “In the fortieth year of David’s reign they were sought for” [Chronicles I 26:31, see Rashi there] 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ so we have twelve years in the life of King Solomon.  
\par \par }

