{\rtf1\ansi\deftab720\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f3\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fcharset1 Arial;}{\f5\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f6\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f7\fcharset1 Davidd;}}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red192\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green0\blue160;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue0;}
\deflang1033\pard\par\plain\par\ql \par\ql \lang1033\ltrch\f6\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf6\cb14\ 30\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ The chief officers\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  These were the oppressors and overseers over those who did the work. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ Three 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ thousand and three hundred\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  And in Chronicles II (2:1) it says three thousand and six hundred. It is, 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ therefore, my opinion that the three thousand three hundred men were in charge of one hundred fifty 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ thousand men, so that each one was in charge of forty five and some odd men, and the three hundred 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ men who were added in Chronicles were in charge of all of them, so that each of these three hundred 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ men was in charge of five hundred and some odd men. And you shall know the evidence in support of 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ my opinion that there are two other passages on this subject, and they contradict one another. For it 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ says on this topic in this book of Kings I (9:23) “These were the chief officers that were over 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Solomon’s work, five hundred and fifty,” and in the book of Chronicles II (8:10) it says “two hundred 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ and fifty.” There are, therefore, altogether, four verses contradicting one another. But we may explain 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ it thus. Those that are mentioned in the latter verses in I Kings 9:23 and in Chronicles II (8:10), were in 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ charge of all of them. And it is a fact that Solomon had employed these proselytes to be bearers of 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ burdens and to hew stones in the mountains. And, in addition, he had the remaining workers for the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ store cities which he also built, who were native born Jews. Because these passages are stated there in 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Chronicles II which discusses the store-cities. And to sum it up then, in the book of Kings he counted 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ the proselyte officers in two separate totals. First, he counted the three thousand three hundred men, 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ the officers who were in charge of forty-five men each, separately. And in (9:23) he combined the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ three hundred superior officers, who were in charge of these three thousand three hundred men, with 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ the two hundred and fifty men who were in charge of the builders of the store-cities, and totaled 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ together five hundred and fifty officers. And, on the other hand, in Chronicles II he counted all the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ proselyte officers, the major and minor ones, together, three thousand six hundred men, and they were 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ all proselytes. And the officers in charge of the workers in the store-cities, who were Jews, totaling 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ two hundred and fifty men, he counted separately. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ Who bore rule over the people that wrought in 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ the work\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  Who bore rule over the people that did the work.  
\par \par }

