{\rtf1\ansi\deftab720\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f3\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fcharset1 Arial;}{\f5\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f6\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f7\fcharset1 Davidd;}}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red192\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green0\blue160;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue0;}
\deflang1033\pard\par\plain\par\ql \par\ql \lang1033\ltrch\f6\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf6\cb14\ 6\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ The nethermost chamber\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  On each side [of the Temple] the chambers were [built in] three [tiers], 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ one on the other. And the measurement of its length is not stated here, [only its width]. And in the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Tractate Midoth (4:3) we learned [as follows]: There were thirty-eight chambers [in all], fifteen in the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ north, five on top of five, and five [more] on top of them, and the same [number] in the south. And 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ eight [more were] in the west, three on top of three and two [more] on top of them. The nethermost 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ [chamber] was five [cubits wide] and the middle ones were six [cubits], and the top ones seven. Why 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ [was this difference]? For he made rebatements in [the wall] of the house round about on the outside. 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ The height of the chamber was five cubits, and as the height of the wall of the Temple [proper] 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ reached five cubits he reduced its thickness and recessed it one cubit inward [on the outside], and on 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ that recess he placed the ends of the beams of the roof at the top of the chamber which served as the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ floor of the middle one. And as the wall reached ten [cubits] he again recessed it one cubit [in order] 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ to place the ends of the beams of the roof of the middle chamber which served as the floor of the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ upper chamber. We [thus] find the middle one is broader than the lower one by one cubit, and the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ upper one is broader than the middle one by one cubit. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ That the beams should not have hold in the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ walls of the house\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  In order not to join the ends of the beams to the walls through perforations in the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ walls of the house, since this causes the deterioration of the wall and is [also] not beautiful, 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ architecturally.  
\par \par }

