{\rtf1\ansi\deftab720\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f3\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fcharset1 Arial;}{\f5\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f6\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f7\fcharset1 Davidd;}{\f50\fcharset1 Davidd;}}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red192\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green0\blue160;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue0;}
\deflang1033\pard\par\plain\par\ql \par\ql \lang1033\ltrch\f6\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf6\cb14\ 9\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ And he covered\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  An expression of covering of the ceiling. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ With panelling and joined planks of 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ cedar\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  [There were] two ceilings. [The] one made for beauty was below, and [the] one of planks of 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ cedar was above. That of panelling was the lower one. And Jonathan rendered \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ ‚Ã≈·ƒÈÌ\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  as \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ ‰«¿˙ÃÂÃÎƒÈÔ\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ , but I do 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ not know what they are. And I did hear in the name of Rabbi Menachem...that they are boards woven 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ beautifully in the form of a design, and it is called in our language (o.f.) celed and in German it [is 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ called] gehimmelt and that is an expression of [something] heavenly [in appearance or in height] as the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ highest part of the beam. And I say they are hollowed bricks, and they are like half a round reed, 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ which are used as coverings for houses [in German, dekziegel]. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ panelling\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  In Aramaic, vaulted canes. 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ joined planks\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  Planks of cedar were laid over the panels, to provide a footing for when they would go 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ to oversee the maintenance of the house [Temple]. Similarly, Jonathan renders, ìand above them [the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ panels] were rows of joined planks made of cedars beams.î The word \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ ¯ÎÙ˙\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  [in the Targum] denotes 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ adjacency [as the planks were adjoining to each other]. Elsewhere (II Sam. 22:12) it says, ìthick 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ clouds of the skyî for which the Targum renders: ìa cluster of light cloudsî [which gave the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ appearance of thick clouds].  
\par \par }

