{\rtf1\ansi\deftab720\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f3\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fcharset1 Arial;}{\f5\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f6\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f7\fcharset1 Davidd;}{\f50\fcharset1 Davidd;}}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red192\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green0\blue160;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue0;}
\deflang1033\pard\par\plain\par\ql \par\ql \lang1033\ltrch\f6\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf6\cb14\ 2\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ The house of the forest of Lebanon\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  Jonathan, [therefore,] translated [this:] a house for the cooling 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ of kings. (The cedar pillars [are those] that stood along the length of the one hundred cubits... Each 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ row was arranged along the length of the one hundred [cubits]. [Therefore,] from the first row until the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ fourth row [was] fifty cubits, which was the width of the house. An annotation of the author of ‘The 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Temple Structure.’) \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ And cut beams of cedar\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  The beams of cedar were [arranged] along the length of 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ the house. [There was] a row of pillars on the ground and the cut beams [were placed] from pillar to 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ pillar. (And the second row of pillars was in front of the first row [of pillars] and [facing] the width of 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ the house. And so it was with all four rows. And the covering of the boards [on the beams was to 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ serve] as the floor [of the upper story] of the house, [which was] from one row to the next row on the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ cut beams. And these pillars were made with many entrances like a porch, and the cut beams were as a 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ lintel which is on the doorposts. And these cut beams were also in order to stand the walls on them; 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ which are the \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ öÀìÈòåÉú\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  mentioned in the text. And the reason that he said “the walls on the pillars” and 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ did not say, ‘on the cut beams’ because the pillars are the main, since the house rests upon them. And 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ the cut beams were only to strengthen and join one pillar to the other so that the dwelling should be 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ one. And these beams were [flat] on their sides they were not vertical. And when he says “on the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ pillars” he means to say: on the cut beams which are on the pillars, but it was not called by its own 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ name because of the pillars. It is also possible that the cut beams did not rise above the pillars, since 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ they were not lying on the top but were placed at the top of the pillars and level with the top (but not 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ as a lintel which overlooks the doorposts, but rather as a long peg which joins two pillars. That is, the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ pillars extended through the beams. And that which he said “and the cut beams on the pillars” [does 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ not mean above the pillars but] on the top part of the pillars. [Now] we find, that that which is on the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ cut beams is [indeed] on the pillars. Up until here is the commentary of the author of ‘The Temple 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Structure’). \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ And it was covered with cedar\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  [There was] a ceiling over it from above. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ On the walls 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ The upper partitions which were on the cut beams. [There were] four partitions next to each other in 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ the width and extended along the length of the house. Each had openings and windows, for this was a 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ summer home made for air. And on those partitions [was] the covering of the ceiling. The ceiling was 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ of forty-five boards, three rows of boards [for the three spaces] [formed by] the four rows of pillars, 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ fifteen boards to each row of the house, [that is, in each space fifteen of them were placed]. Their 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ length was along the width of each row and their width was along the length of the house, one next to 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ the other.  
\par \par }

