{\rtf1\ansi\deftab720\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f3\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fcharset1 Arial;}{\f5\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f6\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f7\fcharset1 Davidd;}{\f50\fcharset1 Davidd;}}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red192\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green0\blue160;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue0;}
\deflang1033\pard\par\plain\par\ql \par\ql \lang1033\ltrch\f6\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf6\cb14\ 26\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ And it was a hand-breadth thick\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  [At] its bottom and its walls, except that at its edge it was thin 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ and beaten out and hammered, wrought like the brim of a cup which we drink from, and decorated 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ with flowers and lilies. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ Two thousand measures\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  Six thousand measures of \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Ò¿‡»‰\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  are found to be one 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ hundred fifty ritual baths of purity. Four thousand measures equal one hundred ritual baths, and the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ two thousand equal fifty ritual baths. And even were you to divide everything according to the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ measurements by which the Sages measured, a cubit squared by three cubits high for each ritual bath, 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ you will find it to be the same. [The lower part of] the [sea was] three cubits [high by ten cubits] 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ square, [which] equal [one hundred square cubits equaling] one hundred ritual baths. [The upper part 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ of] the [sea was] two cubits [high and] round [with a diameter of ten cubits and contained sufficient 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ water for] fifty ritual baths since the square is greater than the circle by one quarter. And in Chron. II 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ (4:5) it is written ìit contained three thousand measuresî? Our Rabbis explained it refers to a dry 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ measure, since the overflow was one third of the capacity of the receptacle.  
\par \par }

