{\rtf1\ansi\deftab720\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f3\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fcharset1 Arial;}{\f5\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f6\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f7\fcharset1 Davidd;}{\f50\fcharset1 Davidd;}}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red192\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green0\blue160;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue0;}
\deflang1033\pard\par\plain\par\ql \par\ql \lang1033\ltrch\f6\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf6\cb14\ 28\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ They had borders\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  I saw in the Mishnah of Forty-Nine Measurements (See 7:16). \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ They had 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ borders\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  The borders were from the axle of one wheel to the axle of the other wheel. And \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ È«„ ‰»‡Â…Ù»Ô\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  is 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ the wood which is inserted into the wheel, in the hole, and it is called ajjsel, essieu in O.F. (axle). And 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ the four wheels of the bases had borders on this side and borders on the other side, on all four sides; 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ and it was four cubits wide between one and the other, and above there were blocks, such as boards 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ against the borders, and the ledges were from the lower borders to the upper ones, [since] there were 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ other borders between the ledges, like the work of the legs of the bed of the villagers which are not 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ round but protruding (should read \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ ·ÃÂ…Ï≈Ë\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ ) in order to decorate them with lions and cherubim. And I say, 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ that these ledges were like the rungs of a ladder, a sort of brass rods standing on the borders. There 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ were two or three rods. The borders were set between one rod and the other, [connected] from one 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ ledge to the other. Jonathan, too, rendered this \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ ˘ÏÈ·È‡\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ , ledges.  
\par \par }

