{\rtf1\ansi\deftab720\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f3\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fcharset1 Arial;}{\f5\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f6\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f7\fcharset1 Davidd;}{\f50\fcharset1 Davidd;}}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red192\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green0\blue160;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue0;}
\deflang1033\pard\par\plain\par\ql \par\ql \lang1033\ltrch\f5\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf5\cb13\ Chapter 2\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  
\par \lang1033\ltrch\f6\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf6\cb14\ 1\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ And Joshua [the son of Nun]sent [two men out of Shittim to spy]\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  Against my will I must say that 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ he dispatched them during Moses’ mourning period, for after three days following the termination of 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Moses’ mourning period, they crossed the Jordan, for thence we deduced that Moses died on Adar 7 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ by counting back thirty-three days from the day they came up from the Jordan, namely, the tenth day 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ of the first month. Now, of necessity, from the time the spies were dispatched, they did not cross the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Jordan until the fifth day, as it is stated: and stayed there three days until the pursuers returned. On 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ that night they crossed over and came to Joshua the son of Nun, and Joshua rose up early in the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ morning, and they moved from Shittim, here is a fourth day. And they lodged there before they 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ crossed over. Hence, they did not cross until the fifth day. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ secretly\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  Secretly. So did Jon. render it. He 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ said to them: Disguise yourselves as deaf-mutes \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ (çøùéí)\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  so that they will not conceal their affairs from 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ you. Another explanation is: \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ çøù\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  [with a “shin”] is like \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ çøù\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  [with a “sin” or “samech,” namely 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ pottery.] Load yourselves with pots so that you appear as potters. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ and see the land and Jericho\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  Now, 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ was Jericho not included in the generalization? Why, then, is it specifed? Because it was as strong as 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ all of them [the cities combined], it was situated on the boundary. Similarly, and there were missing of 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ David’s servants nineteen men and Asahel. Now, was Asahel not included in the generalization? Why, 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ then, was he specified? Because he was as strong as all of them [combined]. Similarly, and King 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Solomon loved many foreign wives and Pharaoh’s daughter. Now, was Pharaoh’s daughter not 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ included in the generalization? Why, then, was she specified? Because he loved her as much as all of 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ them [combined]. And regarding the sin, since she caused him to sin more than all of them. This was 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ taught in \lang1033\ltrch\f3\fs30\b0\i\ul0\cf3\cb11\ Sifrei\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ . \lang1033\ltrch\f5\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ harlot \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ æåðä\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ . Targum Jon. renders: Innkeeper, one who sells various foodstuffs \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ (îæåðåú)\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ .  
\par \par }

