{\rtf1\ansi\deftab720\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f3\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fcharset1 Arial;}{\f5\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f6\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f7\fcharset1 Davidd;}}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red192\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green0\blue160;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue0;}
\deflang1033\pard\par\plain\par\ql \par\ql \lang1033\ltrch\f6\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf6\cb14\ 64\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ The same day the king consecrated the middle of the courtyard\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  These words are to be taken 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ literally. This is Rabbi Yehudah’s view. [Solomon] hallowed the pavement of the court with the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ sanctity of the altar, in order to offer sacrifices on the pavement. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ For the copper altar\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  [i.e., the stone 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ altar] that Solomon constructed in lieu of the copper altar [of Moses]. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ was too small to contain the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ burnt offerings and the meal offerings\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  for they brought very many. Rabbi Jose said to him, Is it not 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ already written (Kings 1:3), “One thousand burnt offerings Solomon offered on that altar which Moses 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ had made,” and when one computes the number of cubits and the number of burnt offerings, [he will 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ find that] this one of stones was larger than Moses’, for on Moses’ altar the place of 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ the ‘maarachah,’ the place usually used for the sacrifice, was but one cubit by one cubit, whereas on 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ this one the place of its ‘maarachah’ was twenty-four cubits by twenty-four cubits. Hence Solomon’s 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ was 576 times as large as that of Moses. If so, what is the meaning of “the king consecrated the middle 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ of the court?” It means that he set the stone altar into it, fastened to the floor. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ was too small to 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ contain\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  [According to Rabbi Jose] he is referring to that of Moses, like one who says to his 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ friend, ‘So-and-so is a dwarf,’ meaning that he is disqualified to perform the sacrificial service.  
\par \par }

