{\rtf1\ansi\deftab720\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f3\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fcharset1 Arial;}{\f5\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f6\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f7\fcharset1 Davidd;}}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red192\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green0\blue160;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue0;}
\deflang1033\pard\par\plain\par\ql \par\ql \lang1033\ltrch\f6\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf6\cb14\ 24\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ But Pharaoh’s daughter\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  who was originally in the city of David, as it is stated in the beginning of 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ this book (3:1): “and he brought her to the city of David.” \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ came up from the city of David\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ ...In 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Chronicles (II 8:11) Scripture explains: “...for he said, A woman shall not live with me in the city of 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ David (the exact wording is: “...in the house of David, king of Israel.”) for they [the entire city and all 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ the houses] are holy, for the Ark of the Lord was brought in to them.” \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ then he built up\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  i.e., Solomon. 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ the Millo\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  (See above v. 15) to build within it houses for her manservants and maidservants. 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Concerning this Jeroboam admonished him, saying: Your father left it open for the pilgrims, and you 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ enclosed it to make a labor force for Pharaoh’s daughter. This is [the inference of] “But” mentioned 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ here. But in this did Solomon sin. So have I heard. I say, however, But Pharaoh’s daughter... i.e., the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ above mentioned cities were necessary to build for store-cities, for chariots, for riders, and for 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ greatness. But, the Millo he did not build for any greatness, for his father had left it for the pilgrims to 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ pitch their tents therein, but since Pharaoh’s daughter had gone up to her house, and the Millo was 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ adjacent to that house, then he built up the Millo.  
\par \par }

