{\rtf1\ansi\deftab720\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f3\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fcharset1 Arial;}{\f5\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f6\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f7\fcharset1 Davidd;}}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red192\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green0\blue160;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue0;}
\deflang1033\pard\par\plain\par\ql \par\ql \lang1033\ltrch\f6\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf6\cb14\ 39\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ but not for all times.\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  For in the days of the Messiah the kingdom will be restored to him. In Seder 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Olam (ch. 15) I found: “I shall afflict David’s descendants because of this. Corresponding to the thirty- 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ six years that Solomon was married to Pharaoh’s daughter, for he married her during the fourth year of 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ his reign. Corresponding to this, the decree was promulgated on the kingdom of the house of David to 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ be divided. The kingdom should have been restored, however, in Asa’s time, in the sixteenth year of 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ his reign, but he sinned by sending a bribe to the king of Aram (below 15:18), and did not depend on 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ the Most Holy, Blessed be He. This is the meaning of that which is stated in Chronicles (II 16:1). In 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ the thirty-sixth year of Asa’s reign Baasha built the high place.” This is impossible, since Asa buried 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Baasha in the twenty-seventh year of his reign (i.e., Baasha died in the twenty-seventh year of Asa’s 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ reignI Kings 15:33). Rather, the sixteenth year of his reign, Scripture calls “the thirty-sixth,” for they 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ are the end of thirty-six years from the division of the kingdom, and Scripture tells us that in that year 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Asa sinned. Thus we explain: “But not for all times,” [but thirty-six years]. 
\par \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  
\par \par }

