{\rtf1\ansi\deftab720\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f3\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fcharset1 Arial;}{\f5\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f6\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f7\fcharset1 Davidd;}}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red192\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green0\blue160;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue0;}
\deflang1033\pard\par\plain\par\ql \par\ql \lang1033\ltrch\f6\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf6\cb14\ 29\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ And in the eleventh year of Joram son of Ahab, Ahaziah became king\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  Above (8:25) it is 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ stated, “In the twelfth year.” And you are forced to say that Jehoram his father did not die until the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ twelfth year of Joram, for in the fifth year of Joram he became king (8:16) and he reigned for eight 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ years (8:17). Now why does it say here, “In the eleventh year?” I say that he reigned one year during 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ his father’s lifetime since he was afflicted with severe maladies, as it is said: “And after all this, the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Lord afflicted him with incurable illness. And it was by the end of a year, that his intestines went out 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ because of his illness... And the inhabitants of Jerusalem made Ahaziah...king” (II Chron 21:18-22:1.) 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Here (8:26) it is stated: “Ahaziah was twenty-two years old when he reigned, and in II Chron. (22: 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ 2), “He was (sic) forty-two years old when he reigned.” Now all the days of Jehoram his father was 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ forty years, no more, as it is said concerning him: “He was thirty-two years old when he became king, 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ and he reigned eight years (8:17).” Now how is it possible for a son to be two years older than his 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ father? Rather, twenty years before he was born, which was two years before his father was born, this 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ decree was issued. From the day that Asa took a daughter of Omri in marriage for Jehoshaphat his son, 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ a decree was issued upon the house of David that it be destroyed with the house of Ahab. And thus it 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ is stated in II Chron. (22:7) “And from God was Ahaziah’s confusion, to come to Joram...” Thus it is 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ taught in Seder Olam (ch. 17) and in the Tosefta of Sotah (ch. 12). Nowhere in the Scriptures, 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ however, do we find that Jehoshaphat married Omri’s daughter. I did find, however, in II Chron. (18: 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ 1) “And he (Jehoshaphat) intermarried with Ahab.” Perhaps this refers to his sister whom he married. 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ And in the thirty-first year of Asa he married her, as it is said: “In the thirty-first year of Asa...Omri 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ reigned” (I Kings 15:23). And we learned in Seder Olam (ch. 17) that he reigned over the entire 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ kingdom, for six years prior to then, he reigned over half the people, and when Asa took his daughter 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ in marriage to Jehoshaphat, he gained prestige, and they assassinated Tibni. Proceed and calculate 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ from the thirty first year of Asa until the death of Ahaziah and you will find them to be forty two.  
\par \par }

