{\rtf1\ansi\deftab720\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f3\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fcharset1 Arial;}{\f5\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f6\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f7\fcharset1 Davidd;}}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red192\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green0\blue160;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue0;}
\deflang1033\pard\par\plain\par\ql \par\ql \lang1033\ltrch\f6\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf6\cb14\ 8\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ In the thirty eighth year of Azariah the king of Judah, Zechariah... reigned\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  From here too it is 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ possible to deduce that Azariah reigned from the time that Joash king of Israel died, fifteen years 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ during the lifetime of Amaziah his father, for if he did not rise until his father died, it follows that he 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ did not rise until the fifteenth year of Jeroboam the son of Joash. Now, since Jeroboam reigned forty- 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ one years, it follows that Jeroboam died in the twenty-seventh year of Uzziah. Now, how does 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Scripture say, “In the thirty-eighth year”? Rather, we are forced [to admit that] Uzziah and Jeroboam 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ reigned simultaneously, except that Jeroboam reigned three years during the lifetime of his father 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Jehoash. Therefore, Scripture states (13:13), “and Jeroboam had sat on his throne,” meaning that he 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ had already sat. Now Uzziah rose when Joash died and Jeroboam reigned as a full fledged monarch 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ (lit. a full kingship). I saw in Seder Olam (ch. 19) that Jeroboam reigned one year during his father’s 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ lifetime, and I do not know whether it is the copyists’ error, for I cannot reconcile [the verse 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ reading,] “In the thirty eighth year of Azariah... Zechariah...reigned,” except in this manner.  
\par \par }

