{\rtf1\ansi\deftab720\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f3\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fcharset1 Arial;}{\f5\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f6\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f7\fcharset1 Davidd;}}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red192\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green0\blue160;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue0;}
\deflang1033\pard\par\plain\par\ql \par\ql \lang1033\ltrch\f5\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf5\cb13\ Chapter 17\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  
\par \lang1033\ltrch\f6\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf6\cb14\ 1\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ In the twelfth year of Ahaz...\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  It is impossible to say that Hoshea became king in the twelfth year of 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Ahaz, for in the fourth year of Ahaz, he assassinated Pekah and reigned in his stead (See above 15:30), 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ and when you calculate Pekah’s years you will find it so. Likewise, it is impossible to say that he did 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ not reign more than nine years, for he reigned from the fourth year of Ahaz until the sixth year of 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Hezekiah, when Samaria was captured. This amounts to more than sixteen years. What then is the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ meaning of “nine years”? Since he rebelled against the king of Assyria. This is what we learned in 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Seder Olam (ch. 23). Now it is impossible to say that in the twelfth year of Ahaz he started to rebel, for 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ if so, you will find the years of his revolt five years during the days of Hezekiah, making eleven years, 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ yet here he states that he reigned nine years. The twelfth year of Ahaz was mentioned only in 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ connection with the following verse, “Shalmaneser the king of Assyria went up against him,” that in 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ the twelfth year of Ahaz, Sennacherib went up against Hoshea and exiled those who were on the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ eastern bank of the Jordan. Thus we learned in Seder Olam (ch. 22), and a verse is written in Chron. I 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ (5:26): “The God of Israel aroused Pul the king of Assyria... and he exiled the Reubenites and the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Gadites...” And he did not explain at what time. Here he explains that it was in the twelfth year of 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Ahaz. The ten tribes were exiled at three different times (lit. three exiles were the ten tribes exiled): (1) 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ in the twentieth year of Pekah, as it is written above, (15:29)... “Tiglath Pileser the king of Assyria 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ came and took Ijon and Dan... and the entire land of Naphtali (sic) and exiled them to Assyria.” Now 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ this was the fourth year of Ahaz. (2) He waited eight years and came upon them in the twelfth year of 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Ahaz, and exiled the Reubenites and the Gadites. When Hoshea the son of Elah saw this, he revolted 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ against him and sent messengers to So the king of Egypt. (3) He waited eight years and came and laid 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ siege to Samaria. After three years it was captured, and everyone was exiled. This is the meaning of 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ that which is written (Is. 8:23): “Like the first time, he dealt mildly, the land of Zebulun and the land 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ of Naphtali.” [I.e., just as the king of Assyria dealt mildly with Israel in the first exile by exiling only 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Zebulun and Naphtali,] so did he deal mildly also in the second exile, for he exiled but two tribes. 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ But “in the last one, he swept (Heb. ‘hichbid’)”. He swept everything out like one who sweeps a 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ house. In any case, according to the figures he wrote here as the number of years of his revolt, [i.e.,] 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ nine years, he did not revolt against him until the fourteenth year of Ahaz, for Ahaz reigned sixteen 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ years; the revolt was three years of Ahaz and six years in the days of Hezekiah.  
\par \par }

