{\rtf1\ansi\deftab720\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f3\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fcharset1 Arial;}{\f5\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f6\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f7\fcharset1 Davidd;}{\f50\fcharset1 Davidd;}}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red192\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green0\blue160;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue0;}
\deflang1033\pard\par\plain\par\ql \par\ql \lang1033\ltrch\f6\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf6\cb14\ 25\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ Have you not heard from afar\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  Why do you boast and aggrandize yourself with this? This is not 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ yours, for you have heard from afar through the prophets, that I decreed upon the nations to bring you 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ upon them, as the matter that is written (Is. 7:4), “Ho, Assyria, the staff of My wrath.” [In Is. 37:26 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Rashi adds:] More than seventy years since Amos prophesied two years before the earthquake (Amos 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ 7:17), “and Israel shall be exiled from upon its land.” Since then, you should have heard that I wrought 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ and prepared this retribution. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ in the days of yore\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  Since the world was created, it entered My thought, 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ as it is said (Is. 30:33), “For Gehinnom is arranged from days of yore; that too was prepared for the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ king.” This refers to Sennacherib, who was burned in the fire of Gehinnom, as it is said (Is. 31:9), “The 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ word of the Lord, Who has fire in Zion.” \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ Now I have brought it\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  and this is the power that is in your 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ hand \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ and it shall be\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  the coming of My decree [shall be] to make desolate fortified cities into 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ blossoming hills, into piles of earth upon which vegetables grow, for you destroy them because of My 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ decree. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ to make desolate\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  [\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ ìÇäÀùÑåÉú\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  in Heb.] an expression of desolation, loneliness.  
\par \par }

