{\rtf1\ansi\deftab720\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f3\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fcharset1 Arial;}{\f5\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f6\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f7\fcharset1 Davidd;}{\f50\fcharset1 Davidd;}}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red192\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green0\blue160;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue0;}
\deflang1033\pard\par\plain\par\ql \par\ql \lang1033\ltrch\f6\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf6\cb14\ 14\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ to Huldah\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  Our Rabbis said that because a woman is more merciful than a man, he, therefore, did 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ not send to Jeremiah. Others say that Jeremiah was not there since he went to bring back the ten 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ tribes. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ in the study-hall\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  [Heb. \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ áÌÇîÌÄùÑÀğÆä\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ ] (Jonathan renders:) in the study hall. There is a gate in the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Temple court, named “the Gate of Huldah.” [This is found in] Tractate Middoth, 1:3. Others interpret 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ áÌÇîÌÄùÑÀğÆä\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  as “outside the wall,” between the two walls, which are double [around] the city. [\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ áÌÇîÌÄùÑÀğÆä\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  She 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ was teaching the Oral Law to the elders of the generation. That is the Mishnah. Annotation of R.A.) 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ His identity is unknown. \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ áÌÇîÄùÑÀğÆä\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ , From (Deut. 1:1) “These are the words,” until (ibid. 34:12) “before 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ the eyes of all Israel,” and likewise all the things that are repeated in the Torah, she expounded on in 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ public, and revealed the punishments and the exiles which were doubled for those who transgress the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ secrets and the allusions of the Torah, the secret of equity.]  
\par \par }

