{\rtf1\ansi\deftab720\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f3\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fcharset1 Arial;}{\f5\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f6\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f7\fcharset1 Davidd;}{\f50\fcharset1 Davidd;}}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red192\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green0\blue160;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue0;}
\deflang1033\pard\par\plain\par\ql \par\ql \lang1033\ltrch\f6\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf6\cb14\ 23\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ rebellious\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  Deviating from the straight path. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ and runs after payments\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  This word is similar to the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Talmudic \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ úÌÇùÑÀìåÌîÄéï\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ . Jonathan paraphrases: One man says to another, Do me a favor in my case, and I 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ will repay you in your case. This refers to a judge who was a robber, and the robbery victim complains 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ about him before another judge. This one says to him, Declare me innocent today, and I will repay you 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ when they complain about you before me. This is the meaning of running after payments. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ and the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ quarrel of the widow does not come to them\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  The widow comes to complain, and the orphan is 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ coming out, when this one meets him and asks him, What did you accomplish in your case? He replies, 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ All day long I toiled at work, but I did not accomplish anything. And this one turns around and says, If 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ this one, who is a man, did not accomplish anything, surely I will not. This is the meaning of, “the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ orphan they do not judge, and the quarrel of the widow does not come to them” at all.  
\par \par }

