{\rtf1\ansi\deftab720\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f3\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fcharset1 Arial;}{\f5\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f6\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f7\fcharset1 Davidd;}{\f50\fcharset1 Davidd;}}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red192\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green0\blue160;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue0;}
\deflang1033\pard\par\plain\par\ql \par\ql \lang1033\ltrch\f6\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf6\cb14\ 18\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ Behold, I and the children...for signs\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  For two signs: the disaster in store for Pekah, as the child 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ was called Maher-shalal-hash-baz, and the salvation of the House of David, as the child was called 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Immanuel. This is the solution of the matter according to its simple meaning. According to Midrash 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Aggadah in Genesis Rabbah (4:2), however, [it deals with Ahaz, who locked (lit. held, \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ àÈçÇæ\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  in Heb.)] 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ the synagogues and the study-halls, lest the children of the schools study Torah. He said, “If there are 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ kids, there are no bucks. If there are no bucks, there are no flocks. If there are no flocks, there is no 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Shepherd. I will cause Him to remove His presence.” The prophet said to him: “No matter how much 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ you bind the testimony and seal the Torah to close it up, so that it shall not be found in Israel, it shall 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ not avail you.” [17] \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ And I will wait for the Lord, Who hides His countenance...\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  There is no harsher 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ prophecy than that time when Moses said (Deut. 31:18): “And I will surely hide My countenance on 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ that day.” And even on that very day, He promised them, “And this song shall testify before him as a 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ witness, for it shall not be forgotten from the mouth of his seed” (ibid.). [18] \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ Behold, I and the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ children etc.\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  They are the disciples, who are as dear to me as children; they shall be for signs and 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ wonders that the Torah will survive [in Israel through them].  
\par \par }

