{\rtf1\ansi\deftab720\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f3\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fcharset1 Arial;}{\f5\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f6\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f7\fcharset1 Davidd;}{\f50\fcharset1 Davidd;}}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red192\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green0\blue160;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue0;}
\deflang1033\pard\par\plain\par\ql \par\ql \lang1033\ltrch\f6\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf6\cb14\ 20\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ For the Torah and the warning\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  This is related to the above: Shall we inquire of the dead for the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Torah and for the warning for the living, to instruct us what to do? All this is according to the Midrash. 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ According to the simple meaning, however, we can interpret: And when they say to you...This is the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ end of his prophecy, for he said (v. 11), “and admonished me from going in the way of this 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ people,” and the Holy One, blessed be He, admonished the prophet and Hezekiah’s company, that 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ when Shebna and his company, who will see Hezekiah condemning idolatry, say to you, Inquire of the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ necromancers and those who divine by the Jidoa bone, and select idolatry as the early forefathers did, 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ and switch the kingdom over to Sennacherib. Does not every people inquire of its god, they worship 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ idols and inquire for the living of the dead? You too should do this. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ for the Torah and for the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ warning\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  This shall be your reply, that you shall observe the Torah, as it is said above, “Bind the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ warning, seal the Torah, and do not believe their words.” \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ if they will not say the likes of this that it 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ has no light\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  Heb. \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ àÅéï ìåÉ ùÑÇçÇø\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ . Since you will reply to him [to themms.] this answer, you will see and 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ hear whether the honest people among them will not concur with your statement, and say, The likes of 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ this thing is true, that the god, the necromancer, and the diviner by the Jidoa bone, have no request”; i. 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ e., it is not proper to request of him, [explaining \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ ùÑÇçÇø\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  as “request.”] In this manner, Jonathan rendered 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ it. The Midrash Aggadah (Lev. Rabbah 6:6) explains: For himself, he cannot make the dawn shine, for 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ he has no eyes and cannot see. How can he make it shine upon others? Another explanation is: \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ If they 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ do not say to you the likes of this thing\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  Now you will see whether they will not say the likes of this 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ thing, namely, “Inquire of the necromancers and of those who divine by the Jidoa bone.” Even though 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ there is no “light” and no substance in this thing, they will not be ashamed.  
\par \par }

