{\rtf1\ansi\deftab720\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f3\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fcharset1 Arial;}{\f5\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f6\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f7\fcharset1 Davidd;}}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red192\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green0\blue160;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue0;}
\deflang1033\pard\par\plain\par\ql \par\ql \lang1033\ltrch\f6\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf6\cb14\ 21\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ And the one who passes therein shall suffer hardships and hunger\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  This refers to the above. 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ What is mentioned at the beginning of the section? “And He admonished me from going in the way 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ of this people.” And he explained what that way is, viz. “You shall not call a band...” the union of 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ the ten tribes, who will unite with the kings of Egypt, and he delineated their punishment: “And it 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ shall be for a portent, and they shall stumble on them,” and the entire section. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ and shall pass 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ therein\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  [i.e.,] the one who passes on that way in abandoning the Holy One, blessed be He and 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ relying upon the kings of Egypt. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ shall suffer hardships\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  Difficult circumstances. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ He shall be 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ wearied by hardships and hunger\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  For the harshness of the siege and the oppression shall come 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ upon them during the siege, the three years that Sennacherib besieged Samaria. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ and it shall come to 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ pass, when he is hungry and wroth, he shall curse\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  the calves and the baalim that they worshipped. 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ and he will turn to Heaven\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  to beseech the Holy One, blessed be He, and He will not listen, for the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ verdict will have been sealed. Jonathan, too, rendered it in this manner.  
\par \par }

