{\rtf1\ansi\deftab720\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f3\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fcharset1 Arial;}{\f5\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f6\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f7\fcharset1 Davidd;}{\f50\fcharset1 Davidd;}}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red192\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green0\blue160;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue0;}
\deflang1033\pard\par\plain\par\ql \par\ql \lang1033\ltrch\f6\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf6\cb14\ 2\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ You have aggrandized this nation\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  They have become aggrandized to all who hear of them, when 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ the nations heard the miracles that were performed for them. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ You have magnified the joy for them 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Heb. \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ ÏÂ…\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ , [lit. for him.] And not for his enemies. It is written \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Ï…‡\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ , [spelled ëlammed 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ aleph,í meaning ënot,í] since Hezekiahís joy was incomplete, because, at that time it was said to him 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ (infra 39:6), everything in your palace...will be carried off to Babylonia.î \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ like the joy of harvest 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Jonathan renders: like the joy of the victors of a battle, which is similar to the harvest; those who slay 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ men cut throats. Scripture deviated from being explicit [lit. changed its language] to expound that the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ miracle took place on the night of the harvest of the omer. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ as they rejoice when they divide spoils\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  of 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Egypt in Mosesí time, for here, too, they divided the spoils of Cush and Egypt and the coveted 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ treasures of all the nations, for, when he returned from Tirhakah, king of Cush, he came to Jerusalem 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ with all the treasures of Cush and Egypt, as it is stated (infra 45:14): ìThe toil of Egypt and the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ merchandise of Cush and the Sebaites...î And all this Hezekiah and his people plundered.  
\par \par }

