{\rtf1\ansi\deftab720\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f3\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fcharset1 Arial;}{\f5\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f6\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f7\fcharset1 Davidd;}{\f50\fcharset1 Davidd;}}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red192\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green0\blue160;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue0;}
\deflang1033\pard\par\plain\par\ql \par\ql \lang1033\ltrch\f6\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf6\cb14\ 6\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ To him who increased the authority\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  To whom will He call this name? To the king who increases 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ the authority of the Holy One, blessed be He, upon himself, to fear Him. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ authority\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  an expression of 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ government. [This is to refute those who disagree with us [the Christians]. But it is possible to say 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ that “Prince of Peace,” too, is one of the names of the Holy One, blessed be He, and this calling of a 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ name is not actually a name but an expression of (var. for the purpose of) greatness and authority. 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Comp. (Ruth 4:11) “And be famous \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ (åÌ÷ÀøÈà ùÑÅí)\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  in Bethlehem. Also (II Sam. 7:9, I Chron. 17:8): “And I 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ shall make for you a name.” Here too, Scripture means, “And He gave him a name and authority.”] 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ and for peace\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  which is given to him, there will be no end, for he had peace on all his sides, and 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ this “end” is not an expression of an end to eternity, but there will be no boundaries. On the throne of 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ the kingdom of David shall this peace be justice and righteousness that Hezekiah performed. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ and for 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ peace\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  Heb. \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ åÌìÀùÑÈìåÉí\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ . This ‘vav’ is to rectify the word, thus: He [Hezekiah] increased the authority upon 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ his shoulder, and what reward will He [God] pay him? Behold, his peace shall have no end or any 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ limit. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ from now and to eternity\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  The eternity of Hezekiah, viz. all his days. And so we find that 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Hannah said concerning Samuel (I Sam. 1:22): “and abide there forever.” And, in order to refute those 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ who disagree [i.e., the Christians, who claim that this (Prince of Peace) is their deity], we can refute 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ them [by asking], What is the meaning of: “from now”? Is it not so that the “deity” did not come until 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ after five hundred years and more? \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ the zeal of the Lord of Hosts\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  Who was zealous for Zion 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ concerning what Aram and Pekah planned about it. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ shall accomplish this\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  but Ahaz does not deserve 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ it, moreover, the merit of the Patriarchs has terminated. Addendum: And our Rabbis said: The Holy 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ One, blessed be He, wished to make Hezekiah the Messiah and Sennacherib, Gog and Magog. Said the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ ministering angels before the Holy One, blessed be He, Should the one who stripped the doors of the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Temple and sent them to the king of Assyria, be made Messiah? Immediately, Scripture closed it up.  
\par \par }

