{\rtf1\ansi\deftab720\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f3\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fcharset1 Arial;}{\f5\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f6\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f7\fcharset1 Davidd;}{\f50\fcharset1 Davidd;}}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red192\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green0\blue160;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue0;}
\deflang1033\pard\par\plain\par\ql \par\ql \lang1033\ltrch\f6\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf6\cb14\ 11\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ On the day of your planting you mingled\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  Heb. \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ úÌÀùÒÇâÀùÒÅðÄé\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ , an expression of mingling. Your branches 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ became mingled with sorts of grasses and mixtures that spoil the branches of the vine. That is to say 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ that in the place where I planted you for Me as a vineyard, there you corrupted your deeds. That is 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ what Ezekiel said to them (20:5): “On the day I chose Israel, and I lifted My hand to the seed of the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ house of Jacob, and I became known to them in the land of Egypt.” And it says further (verse 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ 8): “And they rebelled against Me and they refused to obey...” Here, too, \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ úÌÀùÒÇâÀùÒÅðÄé\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ , you became mingled 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ with the abominations of Egypt. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ and in the morning you cause your seed to blossom\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  And on the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ morrow, when I took you out of there, and I brought you into the land, there, too, your evil seed you 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ caused to blossom. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ a heap of harvest on a day of sickness\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  a heap of bad harvest that lies by day and 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ by night, that harvest is stricken ill, it has reached a day of distress. [Rashi in printed editions.] [Since 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ it is difficult to make sense of this comment of Rashi, Parshandatha prefers the reading of most mss.:] 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ a heap of harvest on a day of sickness\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  a heap of bad harvest, as “on a day of sickness” proves, that 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ harvest reached a day of distress. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ a heap\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  Heb. \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ ðÅã\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ . This is an expression of a tall heap. Comp. (Exodus 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ 15:8) “Running water stood erect like a heap \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ (ðÅã)\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ .” Also (Ps. 33:3), “He gathers like a heap \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ (ëÌÇðÌÅã)\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ .” [The 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ words:] \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ ðÅã\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  and \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ ðåÉã\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  are not the same [i.e., \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ ðÅã\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  is a heap or a stack, and \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ ðåÉã\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  is a flask.] \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ and mortal pain\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  that 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ you were paid your reward. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ mortal\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  Heb. \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ àÈðåÌùÑ\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ , distressed by severe illness. Comp. (II Sam. 12: 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ 15) “And he became mortally ill \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ (åÇéÌÅàÈðÇùÑ)\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ ,” also (Micah 1:9), “For her wounds are mortal \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ (àÂðåÌùÑÈä) 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ .” Alternatively \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ and in the morning you cause your seed to blossom\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  Before the heat comes, you 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ have blossomed, and it is customary for the vineyard to blossom when the heat comes, and the one 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ that blossoms in the morning does not thrive. This is in the Midrash of Rabbi Tanhuma (Sh’lach 12).  
\par \par }

