{\rtf1\ansi\deftab720\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f3\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fcharset1 Arial;}{\f5\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f6\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f7\fcharset1 Davidd;}{\f50\fcharset1 Davidd;}}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red192\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green0\blue160;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue0;}
\deflang1033\pard\par\plain\par\ql \par\ql \lang1033\ltrch\f6\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf6\cb14\ 5\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ Like the report concerning Egypt\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  which they heard about the Egyptians, that I had brought ten 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ plagues upon them, and that they finally drowned in the sea. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ shall they quake\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  They shall be 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ frightened. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ at the report\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  When the listeners hear that the report concerning Tyre has been announced, 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ for also the plagues of Tyre shall be in the same pattern as those plagues: “Blood and fire” (Joel 3:3); 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ (Isaiah 66:6) “A voice of tumult from the city,” like the croaking of the frogs, (Infra 34:9) “And its 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ brooks shall be turned to pitch and its dust into sulphur,” on the pattern of the plague of lice. (Ibid. 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ 11) “But the pelican and hedgehog shall take possession of it,” after the pattern of the plague of a 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ mixture of noxious beasts. (Ezekiel 38:22) “And I will hold judgment over him with pestilence and 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ with blood,” a pattern of the plague of murrain. (Zechariah 14:12) “His flesh shall consume 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ away,” after the pattern of the plague of boils. (Supra 18:5) “And he shall cut off the tendrils,” after 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ the pattern of the hail and locusts; (infra 34:6) “And a great massacre in the land of 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Edom,” corresponding to the plague of the first born. This system is true if his \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ öåÉø\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  is another city 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ (Edom, Rome[Parshandatha]). If it is actually Tyre, because the sea inundated it, the prophet says 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ about it, “Like the report concerning Egypt,” and I say that the entire section, indeed, is talking about 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Tyre, because Zidon is near it. ([Other editions read:] And I say that the entire section is, indeed, 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ talking about Tyre. Because Zidon is near it, he juxtaposes Zidon to it [Parshandatha].)  
\par \par }

