{\rtf1\ansi\deftab720\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f3\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fcharset1 Arial;}{\f5\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f6\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f7\fcharset1 Davidd;}}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red192\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green0\blue160;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue0;}
\deflang1033\pard\par\plain\par\ql \par\ql \lang1033\ltrch\f6\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf6\cb14\ 19\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ May Your dead live\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  Above (v. 14) he prayed that the wicked should not live, and here he prayed 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ that the righteous should live. I beseech You that those who were slain for Your sake come to life. 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ May a royal edict emanate from You saying, “My corpses shall rise.” The corpses of My people who 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ made themselves corpses for My sake, they shall be raised up. This is the opposite of what is written 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ above (v. 14): “Slackers shall not rise.” These, however, shall rise. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ awaken and sing\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  All this the Holy 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ One, blessed be He, shall say to them. “Awaken and sing,” is an imperative form. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ for a dew of lights 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ is Your dew\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  For it is fitting for You to do so, that the dew of Your Torah and Your commandments 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ shall be to them dew of light. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ and [to the] earth You shall cast the slackers\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  And to the earth and to 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ the dust You shall cast the land of (sic) the slackers who slackened their hands from Your Torah. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ You 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ shall cast the slackers\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  Since he stated (v. 18) “Neither do the inhabitants of the world fall,” he 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ repeats, “You cast them down, for our merits do not suffice to cast them down.”  
\par \par }

