{\rtf1\ansi\deftab720\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f3\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fcharset1 Arial;}{\f5\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f6\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f7\fcharset1 Davidd;}}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red192\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green0\blue160;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue0;}
\deflang1033\pard\par\plain\par\ql \par\ql \lang1033\ltrch\f6\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf6\cb14\ 6\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ A voice\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  from the Holy One, blessed be He, says to me, “Call!” \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ and it says\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  My spirit says to 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Him, “What shall I call?” And the voice answers him, “Call this, all flesh is grass. All those who are 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ haughty their greatness shall be turned over and become like grass. ([Manuscripts yield:] All the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ princes of the kingdom their greatness shall be turned over and shall wither away [lit. shall end] like 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ grass.) \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ and all its kindness is like the blossom of the field\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  For “the kindness of the nations is 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ sin” (Prov. 14:34). [Ed. note: We have inverted the order of Rashi and followed the order of K’li Paz 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ and Parshandatha, to connect the second part of the verse with the first. Rashi’s explanation of the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ second part follows his first explanation of the first part. In the Lublin edition, the second explanation 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ of the first part of the verse interrupts the sequence.] (Another explanation is: All flesh is grass.) A 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ person’s end is to die; therefore, if he says to do kindness, he is like the blossom of the field, that is cut 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ off and dries, and one must not rely on him, for he has no power to fulfill his promise, perhaps he will 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ die, for, just as the grass dries out and the blossom wilts, so is it that when a man dies, his promise is 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ null, but the word of our God shall last for He is living and existing, and He has the power to fulfill. 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Therefore, “Upon a lofty mountain ascend and herald, O herald of Zion, for the promise of the tidings 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ emanates from the mouth of Him Who lives forever.”  
\par \par }

