{\rtf1\ansi\deftab720\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f3\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fcharset1 Arial;}{\f5\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f6\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f7\fcharset1 Davidd;}{\f50\fcharset1 Davidd;}}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red192\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green0\blue160;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue0;}
\deflang1033\pard\par\plain\par\ql \par\ql \lang1033\ltrch\f6\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf6\cb14\ 8\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ But you, Israel My servant\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  and I am obliged to help you. The end of this sentence is (infra 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ 10): ìDo not fear.î This appears to me to be the sequence of the section according to its simple 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ meaning. But the Midrash Aggadah in Gen. Rabbah 44:7 expounds the entire section as alluding to 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Malchizedek and Abraham. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ [5] Islands saw\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  the war and feared. Shem [Malchizedek] feared Abraham, 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ lest he say to him, You begot these wicked men in the world. And Abraham feared Shem, since he 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ slew his sons, the people of Elam, who was descended from Shem. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ islands\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  Just as the islands of the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ sea are distinguished and recognized in the sea, so were Abraham and Shem distinguished in the world. 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ [6] Each one aided his fellow\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  This one [Shem] aided this one [Abraham] with blessings, ìBlessed be 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Abramî (Gen. 14:19), and this one [Abraham] aided this one [Shem] with gifts, ìAnd he gave him 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ tithe from everythingî (ibid. verse 20). \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ [7] And the craftsman strengthened\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  This is Shem, who was a 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ blacksmith, to make nails and bars for the ark. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ the smith\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  This is Abraham, who purified \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ (ˆÂ…¯≈Û)\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ people, to bring them near to God [lit. to Heaven]. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ the sledge hammer\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  This is Abraham, who smote 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ (‰»Ï«Ì)\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  all these kings at one time. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ He says of the cement\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  Heb. \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ „Ã∆·∆˜\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ . The nations said, It is good to 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ cleave to this oneís God [rather than to Nimrodís idols]. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ And he strengthened him\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  Shem 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ strengthened Abraham to cleave to the Holy One, blessed be He, and not to move. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ [8] And you, Israel 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ My servant\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  Abraham, who was not descended from righteous menI did all this for him, and you, Israel 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ My servant, who belong to Me by dint of two forefathers. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ the seed of Abraham, who loved Me\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  who 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ did not recognize Me because of the admonition and the teaching of his fathers, but out of love.  
\par \par }

