{\rtf1\ansi\deftab720\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f3\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fcharset1 Arial;}{\f5\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f6\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f7\fcharset1 Davidd;}{\f50\fcharset1 Davidd;}}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red192\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green0\blue160;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue0;}
\deflang1033\pard\par\plain\par\ql \par\ql \lang1033\ltrch\f6\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf6\cb14\ 8\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ Neither did you hearken\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  Jonathan renders: Neither did you hearken to the words of the prophets, 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ neither did you accept the teaching of the Torah, nor did you bend your ear to the words of the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ blessings and the curses of My covenant that I established with you at Horeb. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ for I knew that you 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ would deal treacherously\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  When I came down to save you from the hands of the Egyptians, it was 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ revealed to Me that you would eventually deal treacherously. Nevertheless, I kept the oath of the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Patriarchs. This is what is stated (Ex. 3:7): “I saw the affliction of My people.” [The Hebrew 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ expression for “I saw,” is \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ øÈàÉä øÈàÄéúÄé\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ , a double verb form, which denotes] two seeings. I see that they 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ will eventually deal treacherously, but, nevertheless, I saw the affliction of My people. Rabbi 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Tanhuma expounded it in this manner. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ and...transgressor from the womb\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  Since you were in Egypt, 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ as it is related in Ezekiel (20:5): “And I made Myself known in the land of Egypt, etc. (v. 7) and I said 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ to them, [Cast away, each man the abominations of his eyes, and do not contaminate yourselves with 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ the idols of Egypt].”  
\par \par }

