{\rtf1\ansi\deftab720\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f3\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fcharset1 Arial;}{\f5\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f6\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f7\fcharset1 Davidd;}}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red192\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green0\blue160;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue0;}
\deflang1033\pard\par\plain\par\ql \par\ql \lang1033\ltrch\f6\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf6\cb14\ 16\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ from the time it was, there was I\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  [Jonathan paraphrases:] From the time the nations ceased 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ fearing Me, there I brought Abraham your father near to My service. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ and now, the Lord God has 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ sent me, and His spirit\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  [Jonathan paraphrases:] Said the prophet, “And now, the Lord God has sent 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ me, and His word.” This is an intermingling of words. The one who said this did not say that [i.e., the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ first part of the verse was said by God, and the second part by the prophet]. And the Aggadic Midrash 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ of Rabbi Tanhuma (Yithro 21) explains: Hearken to thisThis alludes to Moses’ Torah, referred to 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ as “This is the Torah.” In the beginning, I did not speak in secretat Sinai. And the prophet says, “From 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ the time that thing was that, He says, I was there.” And we learned from here that all the prophets 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ stood at Sinai. And now He sent me to prophesy to them. Even in this version there is an intermingling 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ of words. “In the beginning I did not speak in secret,” was said by the Shechinah. “From the time it 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ was, there was I,” was said by the prophet. It is possible to interpret it so that there should not be 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ intermingling of words [as follows:] Draw near to me, hearken to this what I prophesy to you regarding 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ the downfall of Babylon and your redemption. In the beginning I did not speak that in secret. From the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ time it was, that the Holy One, blessed be He, decreed to bring it, there I was. This teaches that from 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ the time of the decree, the Holy One, blessed be He, appoints the prophet who is destined to prophesy 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ regarding the matter in the council of the heavenly household, although it has not yet been created.  
\par \par }

