{\rtf1\ansi\deftab720\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f3\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fcharset1 Arial;}{\f5\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f6\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f7\fcharset1 Davidd;}{\f50\fcharset1 Davidd;}}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red192\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green0\blue160;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue0;}
\deflang1033\pard\par\plain\par\ql \par\ql \lang1033\ltrch\f6\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf6\cb14\ 14\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ What must be poured out hastened to be opened\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  Heb. \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ îÄäÇø öÉòÆä ìÀäÄôÌÈúÅçÇ\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ . Even if his stools are 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ hard, and he must be opened by walking in order to move the bowels in order that he not die by 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ destruction, and once he hastens to open up, he requires much food, for, if his bread is lacking, even 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ he will die. \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ öÉòÆä\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  An expression of a thing prepared to be poured, as he says concerning Moab, whom 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ the prophet compared to wine (Jer. 48:11): “Who rests on his dregs and was not poured from vessel to 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ vessel.” And he says there (v. 12), “And I will send pourers \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ (öÉòÄéí)\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  upon him and they shall pour him 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ out \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ (åÀöÅòËäåÌ)\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ , and they shall empty his vessels.” [This is an illustration of the weakness of man. 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Consequently, there is no need to fear him.] Another explanation is: \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ îÄäÇø öÉòÆä\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  That enemy who 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ oppresses you, who is now with girded loins, girded with strength, shall hasten to be opened up and to 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ become weak. \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ öÉòÆä\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  Girded. Comp. (infra 63:1) “Girded \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ (öÉòÆä)\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  with the greatness of His strength.” \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ and 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ he shall not die\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  i.e., the one delivered into his hand [shall not die] of destruction. But the first 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ interpretation is a Midrash Aggadah in Pesikta Rabbathi (34:5).  
\par \par }

