{\rtf1\ansi\deftab720\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f3\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fcharset1 Arial;}{\f5\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f6\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f7\fcharset1 Davidd;}{\f50\fcharset1 Davidd;}}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red192\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green0\blue160;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue0;}
\deflang1033\pard\par\plain\par\ql \par\ql \lang1033\ltrch\f6\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf6\cb14\ 5\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ When I had not yet formed you in the womb, etc.\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  Since the days of the first man. The Holy One, 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ blessed be He, showed Adam each generation and its prophets. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ I...formed you\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  Heb. \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ àöøê\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ , an 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ expression of \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ öåøä\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ , a form. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ I knew you\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  connois toi in O.F. Comp. (Exodus 6:3), “I was not known 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ (ðåãòúÌé)\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  to them.” \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ I appointed you\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  I appointed you for this. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ a prophet to the nations\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  To Israel, who 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ behave like the nations. In this manner it is expounded in Sifrei on the verse: “A prophet from your 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ midst, etc.” (Deut. 18:15), will set up for you and not for those who deny the Torah. How then do I 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ fulfill “A prophet to the nations I made you”? To the children of Israel who deport themselves with the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ customs of the nations. It can further be interpreted: “A prophet for the nations,” like “About the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ nations,” to give them to drink the cup of poison, to prophesy retribution upon them, as it is 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ said: “Take this cup of the wine of wrath from My hand, you shall give all the nations to drink of 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ it” (infra 25:15). Another explanation of “When you had not yet emerged from the womb I appointed 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ you” is: Concerning you I said to Moses: “I will set up a prophet...like you” (Deut. 18:18). This one 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ reproved them, and this one reproved them. This one prophesied for forty years and this one 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ prophesied for forty years.  
\par \par }

