{\rtf1\ansi\deftab720\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f3\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fcharset1 Arial;}{\f5\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f6\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f7\fcharset1 Davidd;}{\f50\fcharset1 Davidd;}}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red192\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green0\blue160;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue0;}
\deflang1033\pard\par\plain\par\ql \par\ql \lang1033\ltrch\f6\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf6\cb14\ 10\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ the isles of the Kittites\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  To the isles of the Kittites. \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ איי\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  is (isles in French). \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ and send to Kedar\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  And 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ send to Kedar to see their custom. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ and consider diligently\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  And put your heart to it to consider the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ matter diligently. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ whether\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  Heb. \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ הן\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ , like \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ אם\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ , if. Whether either of those nations exchanged its god 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ although they are no gods, yet My nation exchanged their glory, with which they were honored. The 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Kittites and the Kedarites were tent dwellers and cattle herders, who would travel, go, and wander 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ from pasture to pasture and from desert to desert, and they carry their gods with them to the place 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ where they encamp. But I carried you until I established you, yet you forsook Me. This is how 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Jonathan paraphrased it. Our Sages said however: The Kittites worshipped water and the Kedarites 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ worshipped fire. And although they know that water quenches fire, they did not forsake their god.  
\par \par }

