{\rtf1\ansi\deftab720\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f3\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fcharset1 Arial;}{\f5\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f6\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f7\fcharset1 Davidd;}}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red192\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green0\blue160;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue0;}
\deflang1033\pard\par\plain\par\ql \par\ql \lang1033\ltrch\f6\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf6\cb14\ 14\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ A voice is heard on high\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  A voice is heard in the height of the world, the voice of the house of 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Israel weeping over Jeremiah the prophet when Nebuzaradan sent him from Ramah to return after the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ exiles to Gedaliah son of Ahikam, as is stated in this Book (below ch. 39). \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ Rachel weeping for her 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ children\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  The Midrash Aggadah states (see Lam. Rabbah Proem 24) that the Patriarchs and the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Matriarchs went to appease the Holy One blessed be He concerning the sin of Manasseh who placed 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ an image in the Temple but He was not appeased. Rachel entered and stated before Him “O Lord of 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ the Universe, whose mercy is greater, Your mercy or the mercy of a flesh and blood person? You must 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ admit that Your mercy is greater. Now did I not bring my rival into my house? For all the work that 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Jacob worked for my father he worked only for me. When I came to enter the nuptial canopy, they 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ brought my sister, and it was not enough that I kept my silence, but I gave her my password. You, too, 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ if Your children have brought Your rival into Your house, keep Your silence for them.” He said to 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ her, “You have defended them well. There is reward for your deed and for your righteousness, that 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ you gave over your password to your sister.”  
\par \par }

