{\rtf1\ansi\deftab720\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f3\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fcharset1 Arial;}{\f5\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f6\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f7\fcharset1 Davidd;}{\f50\fcharset1 Davidd;}}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red192\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green0\blue160;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue0;}
\deflang1033\pard\par\plain\par\ql \par\ql \lang1033\ltrch\f5\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf5\cb13\ Ezekiel\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  
\par \lang1033\ltrch\f5\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf5\cb13\ Chapter 1\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  
\par \lang1033\ltrch\f6\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf6\cb14\ 1\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ Now it came to pass in the thirtieth year\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  The prophet presented his words obscurely and did not 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ tell his name, who he was; nor did he explain from what date he was counting. Therefore, the holy 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ spirit interrupted his words in the following two verses to teach [us] who the prophet was and to teach 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ [us] from what date he was counting. As it is said: “On the fifth day of the monththat is the fifth year, 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ etc.” These are not the words of the prophet, for he already stated that he was standing on the fifth of 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ the month, and furthermore, from the beginning he had stated his prophecy in the first person: “and I 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ was in the midst of the exile”; “and I saw visions of God.” And so at the end: “And I saw, and behold, 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ a storm wind, etc.” Now these [next] two verses interrupted his words, as though someone else was 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ speaking about him: “The word of the Lord was [revealed] to Ezekiel...and the hand of the Lord came 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ upon him there.” \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ as I was in the midst of the exile\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  i.e., outside the land of Israel. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ by the river 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ Chebar\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  The name of the river. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ visions of God\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  Heb. \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ îÇøÀàåÉú\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ . Because he did not see with a “lucid 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ speculum,” he calls it “visions of God,” a sort of dream, insubstantial. All the prophets also saw 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ through a “dim speculum,” except for our teacher Moses. That is what is said (Hos. 12:11): “and to the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ prophets, I assumed likenesses.”  
\par \par }

