{\rtf1\ansi\deftab720\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f3\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fcharset1 Arial;}{\f5\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f6\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f7\fcharset1 Davidd;}{\f50\fcharset1 Davidd;}}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red192\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green0\blue160;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue0;}
\deflang1033\pard\par\plain\par\ql \par\ql \lang1033\ltrch\f6\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf6\cb14\ 5\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ I have given you the years of their iniquity, etc.\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  I have made it easier for you to tolerate the pain 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ that I Myself suffered for the number of the years that they sinned before Me: for you I converted it to 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ that number in days. [Another explanation: \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ ùÌÑÀðÅé\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  is like \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ ùÑÀðÇéÄí\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ , two, and so did Jonathan render: Now I 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ have given you twice as much as their iniquity. This does not appear in other editions]. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ three hundred 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ and ninety days\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  We learned in Seder Olam (ch. 26): This teaches us that Israel sinned for three 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ hundred and ninety years from the time they entered the Land until the ten tribes were exiled 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ therefrom. You find [the events of] two hundred and forty-three of them delineated: From the time 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Jeroboam assumed the throne until Hoshea son of Elah was exiled and in “the days that the judges 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ judged” are one hundred and eleven years. The rest, however, are not delineated. (These are [the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ calculations of] the three hundred and ninety yearsthat I found in a responsum from Rabbi Joseph, the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ head of the yeshivahthat the ten tribes sinned from the days of Joshua until Sannecherib exiled them 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ from Samaria. Calculate: in the days of the Judges there were 8 years under the rule of Cushan, 18 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ under the rule of Eglon, 20 under the rule of Sisera, 7 under the rule of Midian, 18 under the rule of 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ the children of Ammon, and 40 under the rule of the Philistines. This totals 111. From Micah until the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Ark was captured were 40 years, totaling 151. Calculate for Jeroboam son of Nebat 22, Nadab his son 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ 2, Baasa 24, Elah his son 2, Omri 12, Ahab 22, Ahaziah his son 2, Jehoram his brother 12, Jehu 28, 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Jehoahaz 17, Jehoash his son 16, Jeroboam his son 41the total is 350 (sic.). And [with] Menachem son 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ of Gadi 10, Pekahiah his son 2, Pekah son of Remaliah 20, and Hoshea son of Elah 9 years, the total is 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ 391, but Hoshea’s last year is not counted because in Hoshea’s ninth year, Samaria was captured and 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Hoshea was counted as having reigned 8 years, leaving a total of 390. The forty years that the kings of 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Judah sinned after the exile of Sannecherib until [the prophecy of] this chapter was said to Ezekiel are 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ delineated below, and I did not find it necessary to explain them. This is not found in other editions.)  
\par \par }

