{\rtf1\ansi\deftab720\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f3\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fcharset1 Arial;}{\f5\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f6\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f7\fcharset1 Davidd;}{\f50\fcharset1 Davidd;}}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red192\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green0\blue160;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue0;}
\deflang1033\pard\par\plain\par\ql \par\ql \lang1033\ltrch\f6\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf6\cb14\ 9\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ and I anointed you\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  Heb. \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Â»‡¬ÒÀÎ≈Í\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ , a word expressing anointing. Now the entire episode is only a 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ parable, and Jonathan explained it all, leaving nothing to add to the Targum, and he explained it in this 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ manner: \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ [3] Your dwelling place and your birthplace, etc.\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  Your dwelling place and your birthplace 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ are from the land of the Canaanites; there I revealed Myself to your father Abraham [in the covenant] 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ between the parts, and I let him know that you are going down to Egypt. With an arm raised on high, I 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ redeemed you, and through the merit of your fathers, I drove out the Amorites and destroyed the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Hittites. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ [4] And as for your birth, on the day you were born, etc.\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  And also, when your forefathers 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ went down to Egypt, sojourners in a land that was not theirs, they subjugated them and oppressed 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ them. The assembly of Israel was like a newborn infant abandoned in the open field, whose navel was 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ not cut, and who was not rinsed with water to be cleansed, and not salted with salt or swaddled with 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ swaddling clothes. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ [5] No eye pitied you, etc.\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  The eye of the wicked Pharaoh did not pity you to do 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ you any favor, to lighten your bondage, [or] to have pity on you, and he decreed upon you a decree of 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ annihilation, to cast your males into the river to destroy you at the time you were in Egypt. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ [6] And I 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ passed by you, etc.\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  And the remembrance of the covenant of your forefathers came before Me. I 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ revealed Myself to redeem you because it was known to Me that you were being oppressed in your 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ bondage, and I said to you, ìWith the blood of the circumcision I shall spare you,î and I said, ìWith 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ the blood of the Passover, I shall redeem you.î \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ [7] Myriads, like the plants of the field I have made 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ you\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  Myriads, as the plants of the field, I have made you, and you have increased and become strong, 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ and you have become families and tribes, and with the good deeds of your forefathers, the time of the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ redemption of your assembly arrived because you were subjugated and oppressed. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ Myriads, like the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ plants of the field I made you\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  as it is said (Exod. 1:7): ìAnd the children of Israel were fruitful and 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ increased.î \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ but you were naked and bare\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  of the commandments. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ [8] And I passed by you, etc\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  And I 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ revealed Myself to Moses in the thorn bush because it was revealed to Me that the time of your 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ redemption had arrived. I shielded you with My word, and I removed your sins, and I swore by My 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ word to redeem you as I swore to your forefathers, said the Lord God, that you should be a people 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ serving before Me. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ and I spread My skirt\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  The skirt of My garment. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ and I swore to you\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  (Exod. 6: 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ 6): ìTherefore \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ (Ï»Î≈Ô)\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ , say to the children of Israel: I am the Lord! I shall take you out, 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ etc.î ìThereforeî means only an [introduction to an] oath, as it is said (I Sam. 3:14): ìtherefore, I have 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ sworn to the house of Eli...î \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ and came into a covenant with you\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  (Exod. 24:8): ìBehold the blood of 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ the covenant that the Lord has made with you.î \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ [9] and I washed you with water\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  And I redeemed 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ you from the bondage of the Egyptians, and I removed the strength of their lordship from you, and I 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ led you to freedom.  
\par \par }

