{\rtf1\ansi\deftab720\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f3\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fcharset1 Arial;}{\f5\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f6\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f7\fcharset1 Davidd;}}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red192\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green0\blue160;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue0;}
\deflang1033\pard\par\plain\par\ql \par\ql \lang1033\ltrch\f6\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf6\cb14\ 13\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ And you adorned yourself with gold and silver\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  [Jonathan renders:] And I placed My Tabernacle 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ among you, adorned with gold, silver, curtains of linen, colored tapestries and embroidery, and 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ mannawhich was as good as fine flour, honey and oilI fed you, and you became exceedingly rich and 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ strong, and you prospered and ruled over all the kingdoms. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ fine flour, honey, and oil you ate\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  The 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ manna, which would change to any flavorto fine flour, honey, and oilyou ate. The Midrash Aggadah 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ (Mid. Song 4:2) [points out that] thirteen items are enumerated here, and corresponding to them, the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Holy One, blessed be He, ordered them to bring the thirteen items enumerated in the donation for the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Tabernacle (Exod. 25:1-7). Nevertheless, He is destined to repay them in the future with thirteen items 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ (Isa. 4:5f.): “And the Lord shall create over every dwelling of Mount Zion, etc. And a tabernacle shall 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ be for shade by day from the heat, etc., from stream and from rain, etc.” \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ became exceedingly 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ beautiful\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  An expression of beauty.  
\par \par }

