{\rtf1\ansi\deftab720\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f3\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fcharset1 Arial;}{\f5\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f6\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f7\fcharset1 Davidd;}{\f50\fcharset1 Davidd;}}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red192\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green0\blue160;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue0;}
\deflang1033\pard\par\plain\par\ql \par\ql \lang1033\ltrch\f6\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf6\cb14\ 26\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Ú«Ï È¿„≈È ‡«¯¿Â…Ô\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  (Lit., on the hands of Arnon) I.e., along Arnon. These cities were from Moab, but they 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ realized that they could not instigate war over them because Israel had conquered them from Sichon 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ who had taken them from the king of Moab. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ three hundred years\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  Since the land was conquered in 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ the days of Joshua until Jephthah. From here we can derive if the periods of the judges that were 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ mentioned up to this point include the years of oppression by the heathens or not. We have learned in 
\lang1033\ltrch\f3\fs30\b0\i\ul0\cf3\cb11\ Seder Olam\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  (Ch. 12): Joshua led Israel twenty eight years, but I have no Scripture whence to derive it. 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Othniel led them forty years including the years of oppression by Cushan-rishathaim (above 3:11); 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ after him was Ehud for eighty years (above 3:30) including the eighteen years of oppression by Eglon. 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ This totals one hundred forty eight years. Deborah led them forty years (above 5:31) including the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ years of oppression by Jabin. This totals one hundred eighty eight years; afterwards were the seven 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ years of oppression by Midian (above 6:1) and the forty years of Gideon (above 8:28), then the three 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ of Abimelech (above 9:22), thus totaling two hundred thirty eight years. Afterwards were the twenty 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ three of Tola, and the twenty two of Jair (above 10:2,3), however one same year coincides for both of 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ them; finally, adding the eighteen of Ammon prior to Jephthahís introduction (above 10:8), this 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ amounts to the three hundred years.  
\par \par }

