{\rtf1\ansi\deftab720\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f3\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fcharset1 Arial;}{\f5\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f6\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f7\fcharset1 Davidd;}{\f50\fcharset1 Davidd;}}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red192\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green0\blue160;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue0;}
\deflang1033\pard\par\plain\par\ql \par\ql \lang1033\ltrch\f6\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf6\cb14\ 17\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ with wheat of Minnith\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  the name of a place that produced wheat of high quality, like (Jud. 11: 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ 33): “until you come to Minnith.” Midrash Aggadah (source unknown) [explains it as] good, thick 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ wheat kernels, which are sold by number. Jonathan renders: \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ áÌÄçÄèÅé øÄéçåÌùÌÑ\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  expression for a gathering of 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ many numbers, troche in Old French, bundle, bunch. A similar word appears in Pesikta [d’Rav 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Kahana, p. 184b]: “Just as the myrtle is crowded \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ (øÈçåÌùÌÑ)\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  with leaves, so was Leah crowded with 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ sons.” But I do not know what it [wheat of Minnith] is. In the name of Rabbi Simon, I heard that he 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ found in a Bible with a Jerusalem Targum \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ áÌÀçÄèÅé îÄğÄéúåÌôÇğÇâ\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  rendered: \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ áÌÀçåÌùÌÑÀìÈà åÀ÷ÂìÀîÈà\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ . Now, \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ ùÌÑÇòÂøÅé ãÀçåÌùÌÑÀìÈà\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ , 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ which is found in the Talmud (Yoma 79a), is explained as: peeled barley. I say, however, 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ that “Minnith” is an expression of portions \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ (îÈğåÉú)\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ , prepared food. Even according to its vocalization 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ with a “dagesh,” Jonathan is wont to translate a word sometimes according to its apparent meaning 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ and sometimes according to its midrashic meaning. So did he render (below 39:16): “And also the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ name of the city shall be Hamonah \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ (äÂîåÉğÈä)\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ .” Although we punctuate the name \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ äÂîåÉğÈä\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  without 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ a “mappiq hey” \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ (äÁîåÉğÈä)\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ , [with a “mappiq hey” (pronounced) \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ äÂîåÉğÈä\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  would mean “her multitude” with a 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ silent “hey” it means simply “a multitude.”] Jonathan paraphrases: And also there, the slain of the city 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ whose multitude is great will be cast. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ balsam trees\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  [Heb. \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ ôÇğÇâ\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ .] I saw in the book of Joseph the priest 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ (Josiphon vol. 1 p.155 ch. 36 Flusser): The balsam tree is “pannag,” and they were found in Jericho, 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ and because of the fragrant scent, it [the city] is called Jericho [\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ éÀøÄéçåÉ\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  from \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ øÅéçÇ\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ , scent], balsme in Old 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ French.  
\par \par }

