{\rtf1\ansi\deftab720\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f3\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fcharset1 Arial;}{\f5\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f6\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f7\fcharset1 Davidd;}}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red192\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green0\blue160;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue0;}
\deflang1033\pard\par\plain\par\ql \par\ql \lang1033\ltrch\f6\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf6\cb14\ 21\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ On that day will I cause the horn of the House of Israel to blossom out\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  I have neither heard nor 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ found the explanation of this verse. What is the blossoming of the horn of Israel in the downfall of 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Egypt? Was not Israel exiled eight years before the downfall of Egypt? [Therefore,] I say that “On that 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ day” refers back to the above section, (verse 13): “At the end of forty years, I will gather the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Egyptians.” That count ends in the year that Belshazzar assumed the throne, and we find in Daniel that 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ in that year the kings of Persia began to gain strength, and downfall was decreed upon Babylon, as it is 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ said (Dan. 7:1): “In the first year of Belshazzar,...Daniel saw a dream, etc.”; (verse 4) “The first one 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ was like a lion” - that is Babylon. And it is written (ad loc.): “I saw until its wings were plucked off, 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ etc. (verse 5) And behold another, second beast, resembling a bear” that is Persia. And it is written (ad 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ loc.) “And thus it was said to it, ‘Devour much flesh.’” i.e., seize the kingdom. And the kingdom of 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Persia was the blossoming of the horn of Israel, as it is said regarding Cyrus (Isa. 45:13): “He shall 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ build My city and free My exiles.” Now, how do we know that the forty years of Egypt ended at that 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ time? [The proof is that] Egypt was given into the hands of Nebuchadnezzar in the twenty-seventh 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ [year] of Nebuchadnezzar, in the year that this prophecy was said to Ezekiel. Add forty years, and you 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ have sixty-seven. Deduct from them forty-five for Nebuchadnezzar and twenty-three for Evil- 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Merodach, as we say in Megillah (11b), one of these years counting for both [kings], as we say 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ there: “they were incomplete years.” \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ and I will give you free speech in their midst\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  You, Ezekiel, 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ will have free speech when they see your prophecy being fulfilled. 
\par \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  
\par \par }

