{\rtf1\ansi\deftab720\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f3\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fcharset1 Arial;}{\f5\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f6\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f7\fcharset1 Davidd;}}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red192\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green0\blue160;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue0;}
\deflang1033\pard\par\plain\par\ql \par\ql \lang1033\ltrch\f6\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf6\cb14\ 24\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ And the doors had two doors each\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  The entrance of the Heichal had two pairs of doors, as we 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ learned in Middoth (4:1): “It had four doors, two on the inner side and two on the outer side... The 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ outside doors opened [swinging] into the entrance space, overlaying the thickness of the wall.” For it 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ [the wall’s depth] was six cubits, and the door was five cubits wide, measuring half the width of the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ entrance, and was recessed a cubit within the doorpost, with the result that the thickness of the wall 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ had five cubits exposed, and when the outside door was opened toward the inside, it would cover it; 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ and the inner doors would [swing] open toward the interior of the House, covering up [the area of the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ doorpost] behind the doors, for the entire House was overlaid with gold except [for the area of the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ doorpost] the doors. Rabbi Yehudah says: Also the inner doors stayed within the entrance, and were in 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ the form of double doors. And they would fold back upon one another. These were two and a half 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ cubits, and these were two and a half cubits, and a half cubit of the doorpost was here and a cubit and 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ a half of the doorpost here, as it is said: ‘And the doors had two doors [each], two turning doors, 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ etc.’ Now this is its explanation: Both the inner doors and the outer doors stood in the area demarcated 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ by the thickness of the wall. These were recessed one half cubit further in along the doorpost. The 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ inner doors would open toward the outer doors, and the outer doors toward the inner doors. How so? 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Two doors of five cubits each would open one opposite the other along five cubits width of the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ thickness of the wall. They were composed of leaves, and at their midpoint they would fold back when 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ they were opened, like the wooden tablets upon which [scribes] write using an iron stylus, which fold 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ up one behind the other. The result is that when they were folded, they [each] stood at two and a half 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ cubits, and when they were opened one against the other, they [together] covered five cubits of the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ thickness of the wall.  
\par \par }

