{\rtf1\ansi\deftab720\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f3\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fcharset1 Arial;}{\f5\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f6\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f7\fcharset1 Davidd;}}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red192\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green0\blue160;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue0;}
\deflang1033\pard\par\plain\par\ql \par\ql \lang1033\ltrch\f6\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf6\cb14\ 20\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ On four sides he measured it\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  Three thousand cubits by three thousand [cubits], for the rod was 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ six cubits long. This is what the Kalir asserted, “The Beloved will stretch out a line of three thousand 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ cubits limited by three thousand cubits.” This is thirty-six times the original dimensions - for the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Temple Mount was [originally] five hundred cubits by five hundred cubits; arrange 3,000 times 3,000 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ as strips of 500 cubits laid vertically and horizontally [forming a solid square], and you will have 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ thirty-six squares of 500 cubits by 500 cubits. [3,000 x 3,000 = 9,000,000. 500 x 500 = 250,000. 9, 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ 000,000 divided by 250,000 = 36.] Therefore, the poet states: “And thirty-six as it was multiplied.” \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ On 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ four sides he measured it: its wall all around\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  [i.e., the wall] of the Temple Mount. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ around...five 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ hundred\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  in length and in width. This was the wall that encompassed the entire mountain. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ to separate 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ the people between the holy which was inside, and the profane which was outside. I found the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ completion of every measure. (This does not appear in other editions.) 
\par \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  
\par \par }

