{\rtf1\ansi\deftab720\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f3\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fcharset1 Arial;}{\f5\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f6\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f7\fcharset1 Davidd;}{\f50\fcharset1 Davidd;}}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red192\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green0\blue160;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue0;}
\deflang1033\pard\par\plain\par\ql \par\ql \lang1033\ltrch\f6\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf6\cb14\ 13\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ And these are the measurements of the altar\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  as he explains further (verse 17): “fourteen [cubits 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ in] length by fourteen [cubits in] breadth.” \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ in cubits; the cubit, one cubit and a handbreadth\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  with a 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ cubit of six [handbreadths], which is a cubit and a handbreadth, [judging] by a cubit of five 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ [handbreadths]. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ but the base one [ordinary] cubit\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  but its base is measured with an ordinary cubit, 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ which equals five [handbreadths]. The word \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ çÅé÷\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  is related to \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ çÅ÷åÌé\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ , permanence, it refers to the one 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ cubit. The cubit is the ordinary cubit, not a cubit and a handbreadth, which is the cubit of six 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ [handbreadths]. So too did we learn in Menahoth (97b) that the base, the circuit, and the horns are 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ measured with a cubit of five [handbreadths]. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ but the base one [ordinary] cubit\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  This is the yesod. 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ and such a cubit also for the breadth\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  This is the circuit. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ and [likewise on] its border, [going] one 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ span to its edge all around\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  These are the horns, [each of which measured] one span from its center; 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ and they measured a span to each side, totaling a cubit by a cubit. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ and equally so the very top of the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ altar\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  And with this cubit the top of the golden altar was measured [to be] a cubit in length and a cubit 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ in breadth [forming a] square. So it is explained in Erubin (4a). In Menahoth (97b) it is explained more 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ fully in terms of the computation: The base was a cubit in height. It extended upward a cubit, and a 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ cubit was its breadth. The recess of the circuit was recessed a cubit of five [handbreadths], but its 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ height, of which we learned (Middoth 3:1): “It extended upward 5 [cubits] and was recessed a 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ cubit” was not [measured] with a cubit of five [handbreadths]. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ and [likewise on] its border, [going] 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ one span to its edge\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  The horns, both in their breadth and in their height, were [measured] with a cubit 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ of five [handbreadths].  
\par \par }

