{\rtf1\ansi\deftab720\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f3\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fcharset1 Arial;}{\f5\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f6\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f7\fcharset1 Davidd;}}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red192\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green0\blue160;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue0;}
\deflang1033\pard\par\plain\par\ql \par\ql \lang1033\ltrch\f6\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf6\cb14\ 18\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ between Gilead and the land of Israel\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  The eastern border of the land of Canaan. Trans-Jordan is 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ not included within these borders; only the land of Canaan. Similarly, the borders demarcated in the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Torah do not include Trans Jordan. And this is the meaning of this verse: And from the eastern border 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ of the land of Canaan, which is between Hauran and Damascus which are situated on its northeastern 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ corner, as is stated above in this section, and between Gilead and the land of Israel that is on the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ eastern side of the Jordan. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ is the Jordan; from the border by the eastern sea shall you measure 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ The Jordan is its eastern border from the boundary of the northern cornerthat is the Hazer-enan 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ delineated above, until the eastern sea, the Dead Sea, which is in the south-eastern corner. This shall 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ you measure as the length of the eastern border. In the Torah, too, the eastern boundary is delineated 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ in this manner (Num. 34:12): “and its ends shall be the Salt Sea” in the southern corner. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ this is the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ eastern side\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  As if to say, [as translated,] this is the eastern side.  
\par \par }

