{\rtf1\ansi\deftab720\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f3\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fcharset1 Arial;}{\f5\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f6\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f7\fcharset1 Davidd;}}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red192\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green0\blue160;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue0;}
\deflang1033\pard\par\plain\par\ql \par\ql \lang1033\ltrch\f6\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf6\cb14\ 21\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ with righteousness and with justice\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  which you practice. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ and with loving-kindness and with 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ mercy\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  which will come to you from Me because of them. Concerning our father Abraham, it is written 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ (Gen 18:19): “For I love him since he commands etc. to perform righteousness and justice.” And, 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ corresponding to them, He bestowed upon his children loving-kindness and mercy, as it is said (Deut. 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ 13:18): “And He shall grant you mercy”; (ibid. 7:12) “And the Lord your God shall keep for you the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ covenant and the loving-kindness.” When they ceased to perform righteousness and justice, as it is 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ said (Amos 5:7): “Those who turn justice into wormwood, and righteousness they leave on the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ ground,” also the Holy One, blessed be He, took away from them the loving-kindness and the mercy, 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ as it is said (Jer. 16:5): “for I have gathered in My peace from this people, says the Lord, the loving- 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ kindness and the mercies.” And when they will return to perform righteousness and justice, they shall 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ be redeemed immediately, as it is said (Isa. 1:27): “Zion shall be redeemed through justice, and her 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ penitent through righteousness.” And the Holy One, blessed be He, will add mercy and loving- 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ kindness to them and make a crown of all four of them and place it on their head.  
\par \par }

