{\rtf1\ansi\deftab720\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f3\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fcharset1 Arial;}{\f5\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f6\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f7\fcharset1 Davidd;}}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red192\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green0\blue160;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue0;}
\deflang1033\pard\par\plain\par\ql \par\ql \lang1033\ltrch\f6\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf6\cb14\ 3\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ and I said to her: You shall remain as mine for many days\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  The plural “days” refers to (a 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ minimum) of two, “many” to (a minimum of) three, making a total of five. This (the forty-five of the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ previous verse added to the five of this verse) alludes to the fifty days between Passover and 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Pentecost. On that day I offered her the Torah, admonishing her: \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ you shall not play the harlot and 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ you shall not belong to another man\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  [that is], “You shall have no other gods before Me” (Exodus 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ 20:3); so... \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ will I be towards you\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  “I am the Lord your God” (Ex. 20:2). Now the reason he split the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ fifty days into separate calculations, one at the conclusion of “chomer” (i.e., 50 days), the other at the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ conclusion of “lethech” (i.e., the ensuing 15 days), is to represent the “manna” that descended upon 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ them at the culmination of thirty days [from their exodus] on the fifteenth day (sic) of Iyar. From that 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ point, for an [additional] fifteen daysthe numerical equivalent of the number of seah in a lethechon 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ that day they arrived in the Sinai desert on the first day of the month of Sivan. Now in the name of 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Rav Hai I found a most fitting thing: “So I bought her to me etc.,” (verse 2) I have established her 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ atonement indemnity money as a light sum, for whosoever states: “My valuation is incumbent upon 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ me to contribute to the sanctuary, should he be from the age of sixty and above” his valuation shall be 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ fifteen shekels (Lev. 27:7). This sum of fifteen shekels is, according to this interpretation, symbolized 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ by the fifteen pieces of silver of v. 2): Now the “chomer” of barley [represents] the valuation of a 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ male aged twenty and above until sixty, viz. fifty shekels (see Lev. 27:3), the amount of redemption 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ money of a chomer of barley which is similarly fifty silver shekels (See Lev. 27:16: “And if a man 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ shall dedicate to the Lord some part of his field...the seed of a “chomer” of barley shall be valued at 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ fifty shekels of silver.”) Now regarding the lethech of barley, the amount for redeeming a field 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ containing a lethech of barley for the sanctuary is twenty-five shekels, which is [equal to the sum of] 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ the valuation of someone from one month up to five years, which equals five shekels (Lev. 27:6), and 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ that of one from five years up to twenty years, in which cases, “the valuation shall be twenty shekels 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ (Lev. 27:5),” totalling twenty-five shekels. After all this display of affection [by allowing for such 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ relatively easy absolution,] I said to her: \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ [3] You shall remain as mine for many days; you shall not 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ play the harlot\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  by turning to other gods, for, if you do play the harlot, your children shall remain for 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ many days...  
\par \par }

