{\rtf1\ansi\deftab720\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f3\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fcharset1 Arial;}{\f5\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f6\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f7\fcharset1 Davidd;}}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red192\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green0\blue160;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue0;}
\deflang1033\pard\par\plain\par\ql \par\ql \lang1033\ltrch\f6\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf6\cb14\ 15\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ Though you, O Israel, play the harlot\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  the sons of Judah ought not learn their (sic) way. An 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ alternate explanation is: Though you, O Israel, play the harlot, let not Judah become guilty. Though 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Israel is as a harlot, the sons of Judah are not guilty thereof, and I shall [therefore] not hold them 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ accountable, as it is written above (1:17): “But I will have compassion upon the house of Judah.” \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ and 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ do not come\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  you sons of Judah to Gilgal. (Judah shall be blameless) provided the sons of Judah do not 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ come to Gilgal where the ten tribes worship [idols], as it is stated: “All their wickedness is in 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Gilgal” (Hosea 9:15); “[Come] to Gilgal and multiply transgression” (Amos 4:4). \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ nor go up to Beth- 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ aven\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  This is Bethel (which is called by the pejorative, Beth-aven, house of iniquity), for Jeroboam set 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ up the calves there. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ nor swear\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  with them (the Israelite kingdom) “as the Lord lives,” “for if they 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ say, ‘As the Lord lives,’ they, nevertheless, swear falsely” (Jer. 5:2). When they swore falsely, they 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ would mention the name of Heaven, but when they swore truthfully, they would swear in the name of 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ the Baalim.  
\par \par }

