{\rtf1\ansi\deftab720\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f3\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fcharset1 Arial;}{\f5\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f6\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f7\fcharset1 Davidd;}{\f50\fcharset1 Davidd;}}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red192\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green0\blue160;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue0;}
\deflang1033\pard\par\plain\par\ql \par\ql \lang1033\ltrch\f6\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf6\cb14\ 12\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ When they go\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  to Egypt. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ I will spread My net over them; like the fowl of the heaven\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  For the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ eagle and the hawk ascend higher than he and they bring them down to the earth, so will I bring them 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ down in Egypt through Nebuchadnezzar. Another explanation: like the fowl of the heaven that is 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ caught in a net hung on poles, and after they are in the net, they bring down the net. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ I will chastise 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ them as I let their congregation hear\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  I will bring chastisements upon them according to all that I let 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ them hear through Jeremiah the prophet, that they are destined to say to him (42:2-6) “And pray in our 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ behalf etc. And let the Lord your God tell etc. Whether good or bad etc.” And he said to them (verse 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ 15f.), “If you direct your faces to come to Egypt etc. the sword that you fear will overtake you 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ there,” and the entire section. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ I will chastise them\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  Heb. \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ àÇéÀñÄéøÅí\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ , an expression of chastisements \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ (éÄñÌåÌøÄéï) 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ and Menahem (Machbereth Menahem pp. 128f.) explained [it as] an expression of binding. Comp. 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ (Jer. 30:8) “and I will break your thongs \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ (îåÉñÀøåÉúÆéêÈ)\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ ,” but Dunash (Teshuvoth Dunash p. 34) interpreted 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ [it as] an expression of chastisements \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ (éÄñÌåÌøÄéï)\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ . Comp. (Lev. 26:18) “to chastise you \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ (ìÀéÇñÀøÈä)\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ .” And the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ second “yud” in \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ àÇéÀñÄéøÅí\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  is added, as it is added in \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ (éÇéÀùÑÄéøåÌ)\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  (Prov. 4:25) “and your eyelids look straight 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ (éÇéÀùÄéøåÌ)\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  ahead of you.”  
\par \par }

