{\rtf1\ansi\deftab720\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f3\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fcharset1 Arial;}{\f5\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f6\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f7\fcharset1 Davidd;}{\f50\fcharset1 Davidd;}}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red192\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green0\blue160;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue0;}
\deflang1033\pard\par\plain\par\ql \par\ql \lang1033\ltrch\f6\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf6\cb14\ 4\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ with cords of a man\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  I constantly drew them with tender cords with which a man draws his son; i.e., 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ drawing mercifully. Jonathan, too, rendered it in this manner. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ and I was to them like those who lift 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ the yoke on their bridles\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  I.e., like the good farmers who lift the yoke with their hands through bridles 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ to lighten it for the cow that is plowing. So was I with them in every trouble, to make it lighter for 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ them. Another explanation: \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ like those who lift the yoke on their bridles\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  Like the farmers who lift the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ yoke off the neck of the cow or the ox by lengthening the peg upon which the yoke is placed, to 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ lighten it for the plowing cow. So was I with them in every trouble to make it lighter for them. So did 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Jonathan render it: like a good farmer [who makes it lighter for the shoulders of the oxen and 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ lengthens their bridles.] \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ on their bridles\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  Heb. \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ אוֹכִיל\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ , an expression of a stake of an alley. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ and I 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ extended to him the ability to bear\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  I extended him the strength to bear the yoke of the torments. 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Jonathan renders: referring to His supplying them food in the desert.  
\par \par }

