{\rtf1\ansi\deftab720\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f3\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fcharset1 Arial;}{\f5\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f6\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f7\fcharset1 Davidd;}{\f50\fcharset1 Davidd;}}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red192\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green0\blue160;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue0;}
\deflang1033\pard\par\plain\par\ql \par\ql \lang1033\ltrch\f6\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf6\cb14\ 9\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ Surely I have become rich\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  Now why should I worship the Holy One, blessed be He? \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ I have found 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ power for myself\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  Heb. \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ ‡Â…Ô\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ , meaning strength. Rabbi Simon, however, explained it homiletically as 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ follows: I found \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ ‡Â…Ô\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  for myself: I found a deed of indebtedness for myself, that I possess kingship over 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Israel. (Gen. 50:18) ìAnd his brothers too wept and fell etc. ëBehold we are slaves to you etc.íî \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ ‡Â…Ô 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ means the laws of a deed. Comp. (Gittin 43b) ìThey may write his deed \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ (‡Â…Â…)\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  for it.î Comp. (Gittin 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ 43b) ìThey may write his deed \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ ‡Â…Â…\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  for it.î Comp. also (Gen. Rabbah 2:2) With one deed \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ (‡Â…Â…)\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  and 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ with one price. ìAnd this is its explanation: \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ ìAnd Ephraim said: Surely I have become rich; I have 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ found a deed for myself.î\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  Jeroboam son of Nebat, who was of the tribe of Ephraim, boasts and 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ declares: Surely I have become rich, I have found a deed for myself, one deed, that all Israel are my 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ slaves, for my father acquired them, as it is written: And his brothers too went and fell before him, and 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ said: Behold we are your slaves. And whatever a slave acquires belongs to his master. Hence, all their 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ property is mine. Therefore, I have no sin if I take all that is theirs, for they are my slaves. What is 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ written after this? And I am the Lord your God from the land of Egypt. The greatness that came to 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ your father in Egypt was from Me. Said the Holy One, blessed be He. ëBehold we are your 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ slaves,í you have not forgotten, but ëI am the Lord your God,í which was stated in the Decalogue, you 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ have forgotten, for you have erected two calves, one in Bethel and one in Dan. And according to the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ simple meaning of the verse, you say, ìI have found power for myself through oppression and 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ deceitful scales.î And I am the Lord your God from the land of Egypt. There I distinguished between a 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ droplet [of seed] of a firstborn and a droplet which was not of a firstborn. I also know and exact 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ retribution from deceitful scales made without understanding and from one who hides his weights in 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ salt in order to deceive. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ all my toils shall not suffice for my etc.\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  It would have been better for you 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ had you said to yourself: All my money shall not suffice to atone for my iniquity which I have sinned. 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ In this manner Jonathan renders it: The prophet said to them: All your wealth will not remain with you 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ on the day of the retribution of your sins. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ shall not suffice\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  Heb. \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Ï…‡ ÈƒÓ¿ˆ¿‡ÂÃ\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ , usually translated ëshall not 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ find.í They shall not suffice. Comp. (Num. 11:22) ìand suffice \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ (ÂÃÓ»ˆ»‡)\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  for them.î But it cannot be 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ explained: \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ ÎÃ…»Ï-È¿‚ƒÈÚ«È\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ , all those who toil to seek my iniquity shall not find any iniquity with me, for, were 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ that the case, it should be spelled \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ È¿‚≈Ú«È\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  without a ìyud,î and it should be vowelized with a ìtseireh,î but 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ now it is not an expression of one who toils but an expression of toil.  
\par \par }

