{\rtf1\ansi\deftab720\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f3\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fcharset1 Arial;}{\f5\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f6\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f7\fcharset1 Davidd;}{\f50\fcharset1 Davidd;}}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red192\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green0\blue160;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue0;}
\deflang1033\pard\par\plain\par\ql \par\ql \lang1033\ltrch\f6\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf6\cb14\ 2\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ Return, O Israel\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  You, who are in the land of Judah, lest what happens to Samaria happens to you. 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Therefore, the topics are juxtaposed. This can be compared to a king against whom a province 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ rebelled. The king sent a general and commanded him to destroy it. That general was expert and 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ deliberate. He said to them, ìTake for yourselves days (sic); otherwise, I will do to you as I have done 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ to such-and-such a province and to its allies, and to such-and-such a prefecture and to its 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ allies.î Therefore it says, ìSamaria shall be accounted guilty,î and then Scripture says: ìReturn, O 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Israel.î As is found in Sifrei in the section commencing. (Num. 25:1), ìAnd Israel abode in Shittim.î \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ to 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ the Lord your God\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  One taught in the name of Rabbi Meir: Return, O Israel, while He is still \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ È‰Â‰\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ , with 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ the Divine Attribute of Mercy; otherwise, He is \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ ‡∆Ï…‰∆ÈÍ»\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  with the Divine Attribute of Justice, before the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ defense becomes the prosecution. [from Pesikta díRav Kahana, p. 164a] \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ for you have stumbled in 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ your iniquity\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  Obstacles have come to you because of your iniquity.  
\par \par }

