{\rtf1\ansi\deftab720\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f3\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fcharset1 Arial;}{\f5\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f6\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f7\fcharset1 Davidd;}}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red192\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green0\blue160;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue0;}
\deflang1033\pard\par\plain\par\ql \par\ql \lang1033\ltrch\f6\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf6\cb14\ 6\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ Will a shophar be sounded\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  -For the lookout sees troops approaching the city and sounds the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ shophar to warn the people. These are but words of allegory and similitude, [to be explained as 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ follows:] \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ [4] Will a lion roar\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  -That is Nebuchadnezzar. Another explanation: The prophets compare 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ the holy spirit that comes upon them from the roar of a lion, as he states below: (verse 8) “A lion has 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ roared; who will not fear?” And here he explains the allegory. Did the Holy One, blessed be He, bring 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ the holy spirit into the mouths of the prophets to [prophesy] evil unless retribution was decreed by 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Him? That is the prey. Will the Holy One, blessed be He, let out a cry to speak harshly unless He has 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ taken you with the snare of iniquity? Will a bird fall on a net that the net will not snare it? I.e, is it 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ possible that you commit sins and it will not be a snare to you? Will a net ascend etc.? Similarly, will 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ your iniquities ascend on high and not take you? Will a shophar be sounded in the city?... So should 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ you quake before the words of the prophets who look out for you to deliver you from the evil, that it 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ not come, and when the evil comes to you, should you not know that the Holy One, blessed be He, 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ does it to you because you did not take heed of His prophets?  
\par \par }

