{\rtf1\ansi\deftab720\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f3\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fcharset1 Arial;}{\f5\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f6\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f7\fcharset1 Davidd;}{\f50\fcharset1 Davidd;}}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red192\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green0\blue160;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue0;}
\deflang1033\pard\par\plain\par\ql \par\ql \lang1033\ltrch\f6\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf6\cb14\ 3\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ For there shall be another vision for the appointed time\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  A prophet shall yet arise at the end of 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ the years, to whom a vision shall be revealed concerning when the appointed time shall be for the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ downfall of Babylon and the redemption of Israel. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ and He shall speak of the end\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  The speech that He 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ shall say to him concerning the end of Babylon, (Jer. 29:10) “For at the completion of seventy years of 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Babylon.” \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ åÀéÈôÅçÇ\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  is an expression of speech; and there are many uses of this root with similar meaning in 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ the Book of Proverbs. Since speech is only the wind emanating from the mouth, he [the writer of the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Scriptures] calls it \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ ôÌÄéçÇ\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ , blowing, and he calls it wind, e.g., (Ps. 33:6) “And with the wind of His mouth 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ all their host.” \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ and it shall not fail; though it tarry\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  it shall not fail to come, though that appointed 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ time may take long to come. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ wait for it for...; it shall not delay\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  at all after the seventy years. This 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ clause can also be explained to mean: though he tarry, meaning the prophet Jeremiah. \lang1033\ltrch\f3\fs30\b0\i\ul0\cf3\cb11\ Jonathan\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  renders: 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ the prophecy is written and explained in the Book of the Torah. He translated \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ ëÌÀúÉá\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  as \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ ëÌÈúåÌá\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ . It has 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ already been alluded to in the Torah (Lev. 26:34): “Then shall the land placate [God concerning] its 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Sabbaths.” Israel sinned by violating seventy Sabbatical Years, in which they did not release the land, 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ and, corresponding to them, they were exiled therefrom for seventy years. And so it is stated in II 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Chronicles (36:21): “Until the land placated its Sabbaths; all the days it lay waste, it rested to complete 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ seventy years.” And so you find in Ezekiel (4:5): “And I have given you the years of their iniquity 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ according to the number of days, three hundred and ninety days... (verse 6) I gave you a day for a 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ year.” And Scripture says (verse 4): “And you lie on your left side, etc.” You are found saying that 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Israel provoked God for three hundred and ninety years until the Ten Tribes were exiled, and the tribe 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ of Judah sinned for forty years, and from the time the Ten Tribes were exiled until the destruction of 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Jerusalem are the twenty-two years of Manasseh. The rest of Manasseh’s years were spent in 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ repentance, for it is stated concerning him (II Kings 21:2f.) “And he did what was evil, etc.,... as 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Ahab... had made.” Therefore we count Manasseh’s evil years according to the number of Ahab’s 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ years, and he reigned for twenty-two years. With two years of his son Amon’s reign, and eleven of 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Jehoiakim’s, and eleven of Zedekiah’s, the evil years total forty-six, and this prophecy was said to 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Ezekiel in the fifth year of Zedekiah. In any case, we find the time of their sinning four hundred and 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ thirty years, for after this prophecy they tarried there six years. [I.e., the two tribes of Judah and 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Benjamin remained in the land for six more years] In four hundred years, there are eight Jubilee Years, 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ and in every Jubilee cycle there are seven Release Years, making a total of fifty-six Release Years and 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ eight years consecrated as Jubilee Years making all together sixty-four. In thirty-six years there are 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ five Release Years, totaling sixty-nine consecrated years, and this final Jubilee year is also counted in 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ the number, since it was not completed because of their iniquity. And here, this is what the Holy One, 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ blessed be He, said to Habakkuk: A vision is already written in the Torah, but it is sealed. You write 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ and explain on the tablets, for a vision of this appointed time will yet be revealed. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ and He shall speak 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ It is an expression [denoting] speech, and there are many similar instances throughout the book of 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Proverbs. Since speech is merely wind that goes out of the mouth, it is called \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ ôéç\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  or \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ øåç\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ , wind, as in 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ (Psalms 33:6) “and with the breath of His mouth, all their host.”  
\par \par }

