{\rtf1\ansi\deftab720\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f3\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fcharset1 Arial;}{\f5\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f6\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f7\fcharset1 Davidd;}}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red192\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green0\blue160;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue0;}
\deflang1033\pard\par\plain\par\ql \par\ql \lang1033\ltrch\f6\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf6\cb14\ 6\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ He stood and meted out to the earth\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  He waited to examine minutely the case of the generation of 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ the Flood, to mete out to them a measure for a measure, and He meted it out. “He stood” is to be 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ understood in the sense of (Isa. 3: 13) “The Lord stands to plead, and He stands to judge the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ peoples.” He waits and examines their case minutely. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ and meted out to the earth\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  They sinned with 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ heat, and they were judged with boiling water. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ He saw\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  the generation of separation, who, since they 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ were of one language, all came upon the plan, as it is written (Gen. 1 1:1): “And all the earth was of 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ one language.” \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ and caused nations to wander\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  He caused them to jump into seventy languages as it is 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ said (Lev. 11:21): “To jump with them on the earth,” and (Job 37:1) “My heart trembles and jumps 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ from its place.” \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ the everlasting mountains\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  The heavenly princes of the nations. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ the procedures of 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ the world are His\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  He demonstrated to them that all the procedures of the world are His.  
\par \par }

