{\rtf1\ansi\deftab720\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f3\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fcharset1 Arial;}{\f5\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f6\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f7\fcharset1 Davidd;}{\f50\fcharset1 Davidd;}}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red192\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green0\blue160;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue0;}
\deflang1033\pard\par\plain\par\ql \par\ql \lang1033\ltrch\f6\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf6\cb14\ 9\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ For, behold the stone\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  The foundation of the house that you laid in the days of Cyrus - they stopped 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ you, and that foundation and the thickness of the wall appeared little in your sight, as explained in 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Ezra (3:12f.) and in the prophecy of Haggai (2:2f.). \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ Seven eyes are directed to one stone\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  It will 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ eventually be widened seven times as much. And so did \lang1033\ltrch\f3\fs30\b0\i\ul0\cf3\cb11\ Jonathan\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  render: On one stone, seven eyes see 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ it. The expression of \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ òÅéðÇéÄí\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  is an expression of appearances. It appears to me that the seven eyes are 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ because of the eyes of the Holy One, blessed be He in Whose eyes and heart it is [planned] to add 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ seven times as much because of the prophecy similar to this one (4:10): “And they shall see the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ plummet in the hand of Zerubbabel these seven times; the eyes of the Lord they are roving to and fro 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ throughout the land.” This is but to say that He directed His eyes to increase the glory of the Temple in 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ its building. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ Behold! I untie its knots\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  I untie its knots I thwart the plot of the enemies who wrote an 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ accusation to stop the work. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ and I will remove\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  Heb. \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ åîùúé\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ . \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ in one day\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  I do not know what day. 
\par \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  
\par \par }

