{\rtf1\ansi\deftab720\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f3\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fcharset1 Arial;}{\f5\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f6\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f7\fcharset1 Davidd;}{\f50\fcharset1 Davidd;}}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red192\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green0\blue160;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue0;}
\deflang1033\pard\par\plain\par\ql \par\ql \lang1033\ltrch\f6\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf6\cb14\ 11\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ O Lord of Hosts:\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  Why was this Name designated here? (The answer is as follows:) She said before 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Him: O Lord of the universe, You created two hosts in Your world. The heavenly beings do not 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ multiply, neither do they die, while the earthly beings both multiply and die. If I am of the earthly 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ beings let me multiply, and if I am of the heavenly beings let me not die. I found this explanation in the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Aggadah of Rabbi Jose the Galilean. Our sages in tractate Ber. (31b), however, expounded what they 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ expounded: Until then there was no person who called the Holy One, blessed be He, “Hosts.” (Why 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ then, did Hannah call Him by this Name?) But, so said she before Him: “O Lord of the universe, from 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ all the hosts which You created in Your world, do You find it difficult to grant me one son?” \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ if You 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ will look:\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  (Lit., if seeing You will see.) In tractate Ber., our sages expounded what they expounded. 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ Your bondswoman:\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  which is stated three times in this verse, corresponds to the three precepts which 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ a woman is commanded to observe. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ A man child:\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  (Lit., seed of men, meaning) righteous men, as it is 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ written (Kings I:2:32): “Upon two righteous men.” \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ àðùéí\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  also means important men, as it is written 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ (Deut. 1:13): wise and known men. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ and I shall give him to the Lord:\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  that he be fit to be given to the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Lord. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ and no razor shall come upon his head:\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  (translation follows K, however,) Jonathan renders: 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ and the fear of man will not be upon him.  
\par \par }

