{\rtf1\ansi\deftab720\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f3\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fcharset1 Arial;}{\f5\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f6\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f7\fcharset1 Davidd;}{\f50\fcharset1 Davidd;}}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red192\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green0\blue160;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue0;}
\deflang1033\pard\par\plain\par\ql \par\ql \lang1033\ltrch\f6\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf6\cb14\ 12\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ And I said\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  to the remaining kings of Judah. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ ìIf it pleases you, give [Me] My hire...î\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  Fulfill My 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ commandments, and that will be My payment for all the good that I have given you; as they give hire 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ to a shepherd, I will return and tend you. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ and if not, forbear\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  And I, too, will not do good for you. We 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ find that the Holy One, blessed be He, said similarly to Ezekiel (3:27): ìHe that hears, let him hear, 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ and he that forbears, let him forbear.î \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ And they weighed out My hire, thirty pieces of silver 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Jonathan paraphrases: And they performed My will with a few men. There were a few good men 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ among them, such as the craftsmen and the sentries, Daniel, Hananiah, Mishael, Azariah, and Ezekiel. 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ But I do not know how to explain the expression here of thirty pieces of silver exactly, except that \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ ÎÃ∆Ò∆Û 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ is an expression of desire. Our Sages, too, explained it this way in Chullin (92a). They brought proof 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ from (Prov. 7:20), ìThe bundle of the desirable ones He took in His hand.î The thirty they explained 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ in the following manner: There are forty-five righteous men in every generation. They brought proof 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ from (Hosea 3:2), ìa \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Á…Ó∆¯\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  of barley and a \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Ï∆˙∆Í¿\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  of barleyî - fifteen righteous in Babylon and thirty in 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Eretz Israel. It is said: ìAnd I took the thirty pieces of silver, and I cast them into the house of the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Lord in Eretz Israel.î The number thirty is explained by the Midrash Aggadah (Cf. Gen. Rabbah 49:3, 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Pesikta díRav Kahana 88a), that our father Abraham was promised that no generation would have 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ fewer than thirty righteous in men, the number of (Gen. 15:8): "So shall your seed be.î The word \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Èƒ‰¿È∆‰ 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ has the numerical value of thirty.  
\par \par }

