{\rtf1\ansi\deftab720\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f3\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fcharset1 Arial;}{\f5\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f6\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f7\fcharset1 Davidd;}}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red192\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green0\blue160;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue0;}
\deflang1033\pard\par\plain\par\ql \par\ql \lang1033\ltrch\f6\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf6\cb14\ 22\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ Until the child is weaned:\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  after twenty two months (other versions, twenty four), for that is the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ time of nursing a child. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ and abide there forever:\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  “Forever” in the Levitic sense means fifty years, as 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ it says, (Num. 8:25), “and from the age of fifty years he shall return from the host of the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ work.” Figuring as follows, we determine that Samuel’s lifetime was fifty-two years. Eli judged Israel 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ for forty years (see 4:18), and on the day of Hannah’s prayer, he was appointed judge (See above v. 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ 9). By subtracting the year in which Hannah conceived Samuel, there remain thirty nine years. Samuel 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ governed Israel from the time of Eli’s death for thirteen years, figuring thus: On the day of Eli’s death, 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ the Ark was abducted, and it remained in the field of the Philistines for seven months (below 6:1). 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ From there, it was brought to Kiriath-jearim, where it remained until David took it out of there after he 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ had reigned seven years in Hebron over Judah, and all Israel had accepted him as their king. And it is 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ written: And is was, from the day that the Ark abode in Kiriath-jearim that the time was long, for it 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ was twenty years, etc. (below 7:2). Subtract from them seven years which David reigned in Hebron. 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ We find that from the time that the Ark was abducted until Saul’s death, were thirteen years and seven 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ months, and Samuel died four months before Saul.  
\par \par }

