{\rtf1\ansi\deftab720\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f3\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fcharset1 Arial;}{\f5\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f6\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f7\fcharset1 Davidd;}{\f50\fcharset1 Davidd;}}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red192\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green0\blue160;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue0;}
\deflang1033\pard\par\plain\par\ql \par\ql \lang1033\ltrch\f6\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf6\cb14\ 15\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ Now did He not make one\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  The Holy One, blessed be He, made Adam and Eve first. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ the rest of 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ the spirits\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  The spirits and the souls. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ had\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  Lit., to him were. They all came our from the first man. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ Now 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ what does the one seek\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  Now what does the one member of the couple seek to find accusations against 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ his wife, who is his mate, who is the seed of God? What does he claim of her that he disgraces her? 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ This is the wording of Jonathanís translation, except that Jonathan renders: Now what does the one 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ seek except seed of God? The explanation is correct except for the fact that the word \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ ‰»‡∆Á»„\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  is pointed 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ with "zakefî mark, and the mark of the "zakefî separates the word \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Ó¿·«˜Ã≈˘\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  from joining \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ ÂÃÓ»‰ ‰»‡∆Á»„\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ . It 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ connects it to \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Ê∆¯«Ú ‡¡-Ï……‰ƒÈÌ\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ . \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ He had a different spirit\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  His intention was not like your intention. He did 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ not cast his eye upon her. He had a different intention. They said to him, \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ ìNow what did the one 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ seek?î\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  What was his intention? He said to them: To have seed of the Lord. Jonathanís translation 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ appeals to me, because neither in Scripture nor in the Mishnah do we find \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ ˘—¿‡»¯\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  being used as an 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ expression of ìotherî - except where a person can explain it as an expression of residue, as in (Dan. 7: 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ 19), ìwhich devoured, broke in pieces, and stamped the residue with his feet." In the language of the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Mishnah (Sanh. 8b), ìAnd others liable to deathî - outside of those delineated. But in the expression 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ for which \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ ‡«Á≈¯\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  is used, \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ ˘—¿‡»¯\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  is not used. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ and you shall beware of your spirit, that it shall not deal 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ treacherously with the wife of your youth\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  Your spirit shall not deal treacherously.  
\par \par }

