{\rtf1\ansi\deftab720\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f3\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fcharset1 Arial;}{\f5\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f6\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f7\fcharset1 Davidd;}}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red192\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green0\blue160;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue0;}
\deflang1033\pard\par\plain\par\ql \par\ql \lang1033\ltrch\f5\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf5\cb13\ Chapter 3\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  
\par \lang1033\ltrch\f6\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf6\cb14\ 1\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ A song of David, when he fled\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  The Aggadists expounded many homilies on this matter. Our Sages 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ said (Ber. 7a): When the prophet said to him (in II Sam. 12:11), “Behold I will raise up against you evil 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ out of your own house etc.,” his heart was quaking, perhaps a slave or a mamzer [a child of an illicit 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ union] will rise up against me, who will not have mercy on me. As soon as he found out that it was his 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ son, he was happy. The Midrash Aggadah (Midrash Psalms 3:3) [states]: Because he saw his order 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ intact, for his servants, and the Kerethite and Pelethite, who were the Sanhedrin were affirming his 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ lordship over themselves. When he said to them (ibid. 15:14), “Arise and let us flee etc. from 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Absalom,” what is written there? (verse 15) “Whatever my lord the king shall choose, behold your 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ servants [are ready to do].” And when he came to Mahanaim (ibid. 17:27), “Shobi, etc. and Machir 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ the son of Amiel, etc. and Barzilai the Gileadite” came to meet him and sustained him there.  
\par \par }

