{\rtf1\ansi\deftab720\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f3\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fcharset1 Arial;}{\f5\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f6\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f7\fcharset1 Davidd;}}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red192\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green0\blue160;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue0;}
\deflang1033\pard\par\plain\par\ql \par\ql \lang1033\ltrch\f6\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf6\cb14\ 11\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ shall be ashamed and very frightened, etc.\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  What is the meaning of “they shall return and be 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ ashamed” a second time? Said Rabbi Johanan: In the future the Holy One, blessed be He, will judge 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ the wicked of the nations of the world and sentence them to Gehinnom. Because they will complain to 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Him, He will take them back and again show them their records, and He returns them to Gehinnom. 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ This is a double embarrassment. Rabbi Shmuel bar Nachmani says: In the future, every nation will call 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ to its god, but it will not answer. Consequently, they will call to the Holy One, blessed be He. He will 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ say to them, “Had you called Me first, I would have answered you. Now you have made the idols of 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ primary importance and Me of secondary import. Therefore, I will not answer,” for it is stated (below 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ 18:42): “They pray, but no one saves them.” This refers to the idols, and afterward, “to the Lord, but 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ He answered them not.” Therefore, it is said: “they shall return and be ashamed.” \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ in a moment\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  In a 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ short time. 
\par \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  
\par \par }

