{\rtf1\ansi\deftab720\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f3\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fcharset1 Arial;}{\f5\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f6\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f7\fcharset1 Davidd;}{\f50\fcharset1 Davidd;}}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red192\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green0\blue160;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue0;}
\deflang1033\pard\par\plain\par\ql \par\ql \lang1033\ltrch\f6\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf6\cb14\ 7\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ The sayings of the Lord are pure sayings\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  for He has the ability to fulfill them, but the sayings of 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ the sons of men are not sayings when they die and are unable to fulfill [them]. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ pure\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  Clear and 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ permanent. Whatever He promises He does, for He promised me salvation and the throne. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ silver 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ refined\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  They are like refined silver that is exposed to the entire land. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ exposed\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  Heb. \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ בעליל\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ , an 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ expression of revealing; in the language of the Mishna (Rosh Hashanah 21b, see Gemara): “whether it 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ was plainly \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ (בעליל)\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  visible or whether it was not plainly \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ (בעליל)\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  visible, etc.” Others explain \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ בעליל\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  as an 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ expression of elevation, and this is its explanation: silver refined with the best earth. That is to say, like 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ silver that is refined with the best earth and its upper layer, because a person makes a crucible to 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ refine the silver from the best earth. Another explanation: \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ בעליל\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  is like \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ בעלי\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ , with a mortar (as in Prov. 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ 27:22): “among grain with a pestle,” which is the name of a utensil in which [grain] is crushed. 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Similarly, \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ בעליל\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  is the crucible in which gold and silver are smelted. However, this does not seem 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ correct because he does not call \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ עלי\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  the mortar in which [the grain] is crushed, but the handle of the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ pestle with which they crush. This is called pilon in French, pestle. Another explanation: \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ בעליל\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  is an 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ expression of the master of a hand, i.e., the master of the earth, and the praise of the word applies to 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ God. Targum Jonathan, too, renders it as an expression of lordship. He says that His sayings are like 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ silver, refined by the Lord of the earth, Who is God, for He refined and clarified them.  
\par \par }

