{\rtf1\ansi\deftab720\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f3\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fcharset1 Arial;}{\f5\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f6\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f7\fcharset1 Davidd;}}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red192\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green0\blue160;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue0;}
\deflang1033\pard\par\plain\par\ql \par\ql \lang1033\ltrch\f6\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf6\cb14\ 30\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ I said\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  (Heb. ‘amor amarti’) Twice I assigned greatness to the sons of Ithamar. Concerning the sons 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ of Gershon and the sons of Merari, it is stated: Under the hand of Ithamar, the son of Aaron the Priest. 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ (Num. 4:23, 33). And Eli was one of the descendants of Ithamar. This I found in M.S.(8:3). I have, 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ however, heard a more fitting version, as follows: I said: Your house and your father’s house, etc. 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Originally, I gave the high priesthood to Eleazar the Priest, as it is stated: And remove from Aaron his 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ garments, and put them on Eleazar, his son (Num. 20:26). At the time of the concubine (in Gibeah, v. 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Judges 19, 21), when the Israelites freed themselves of most of the Commandments. And who caused 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ them (to do so)? Phinehas and his colleagues, who should have gone around from city to city to 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ reprove them. I, (therefore) took the High Priesthood away from them, and gave it to you, for you are 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ of the descendants of Ithamar, and I said: They shall walk before Me forever, for when greatness is 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ assigned to someone, it is assigned to him and to his generations forever. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ for those who honor Me 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ shall I honor\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  The descendants of Phinehas who honored Me at Shittim (Num. 21:7,8). And so it came 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ about in the days of Solomon, that when he built the Temple, Solomon dismissed Ebiathar from being 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ a priest to the Lord, to fulfill the word of the Lord which He had spoken to the house of Eli (I Kings 2: 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ 27), and Zadok became High Priest, since he was of the descendants of Phinehas, for so he is listed in 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ the genealogical records in the Book of Chronicles (I Chron. 6:35 38). \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ and those who despise Me will 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ be disgraced\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  By themselves, when I shall withdraw Myself from them.  
\par \par }

