{\rtf1\ansi\deftab720\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f3\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fcharset1 Arial;}{\f5\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f6\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f7\fcharset1 Davidd;}}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red192\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green0\blue160;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue0;}
\deflang1033\pard\par\plain\par\ql \par\ql \lang1033\ltrch\f6\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf6\cb14\ 8\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ The law of the Lord is perfect\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  That too illuminates like the sun, as is written at the end of the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ topic: “enlightening the eyes,” and Scripture states (in Prov. 6:23): “For a commandment is a candle 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ and the Torah is light.” Another explanation: \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ and none is hidden from its heat\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  on the Day of 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Judgment, [as is stated in Malachi 3:19]: “And the sun that comes shall burn them up.” But the law of 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ the Lord is perfect; it restores the soul to ways of life and it protects those who study it from that 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ burning, as is stated (ibid. verse 20): “And the sun of mercy shall rise with healing...for you who fear 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ My Name.” \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ the testimony of the Lord is faithful\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  It is faithful to testify for those who study it. 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ restoring the soul\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  It [the law] restores it [the soul] from the ways of death to the ways of life. The 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ law, the testimony, the orders, the commandments, the fear, and the judgments total six, corresponding 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ to the six orders of the Mishnah. Between each name [of God] are five words including the name 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ itself, corresponding to the Five Books of the Pentateuch. And so [the Psalmist] concludes: “true, 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ altogether just.” They are altogether devised with kindness and truth. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ making the simple one wise\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  It 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ gives wisdom to the simple.  
\par \par }

