{\rtf1\ansi\deftab720\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f3\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fcharset1 Arial;}{\f5\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f6\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f7\fcharset1 Davidd;}{\f50\fcharset1 Davidd;}}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red192\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green0\blue160;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue0;}
\deflang1033\pard\par\plain\par\ql \par\ql \lang1033\ltrch\f6\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf6\cb14\ 9\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ By day, may the Lord command His kindness\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  May the light of the redemption come, and may the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Lord command His kindness to us. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ and at night\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  In the darkness of the exile and the troubles. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ may His 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ resting place be with me\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  Heb. \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ ùéøä\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ . May His resting place be in our midst. \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ ùÌÑéøä\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  is an expression of 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ camping, as we translate (II Sam. 17:26): “And Israel encamped,” \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ åÌùÌÑÀøÈà\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ . I learned this from the Great 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Masorah, which associates this [word] with (I Kings 5:12): “And his songs \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ (ùéøå)\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  were a thousand and 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ five,” in the “aleph-beth” of two words with different meanings (homonyms). This taught [me] that 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ this is not an expression of song, but the Midrash Aggadah does interpret it as an expression of song, 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ interpreting in this manner: Israel says to the Holy One, blessed be He: “We remember what You did 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ for us in Egypt. You commanded us one commandment by day on the eve of the Passover, and we 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ observed it, and at night, You redeemed us and we sang Hallel before You. But now we keep many 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ commandments, yet You do not redeem us. Because of this, I will say to God, my Rock, ‘Why have 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ You forgotten me?’ “  
\par \par }

