{\rtf1\ansi\deftab720\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f3\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fcharset1 Arial;}{\f5\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f6\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f7\fcharset1 Davidd;}}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red192\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green0\blue160;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue0;}
\deflang1033\pard\par\plain\par\ql \par\ql \lang1033\ltrch\f6\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf6\cb14\ 2\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ from the day the Ark was stationed in Kiriath-jearim\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  And they saw the retribution which befell 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ them because of the sin of the house of Eli and the mighty deed which the Holy One, Blessed be He, 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ had performed against the Philistines. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ and all the house of Israel were drawn after the Lord\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  through 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Samuel who would travel from city to city, judging and reproving them. Heb. ‘va’yinahu,’ an 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ expression of drawing, in Aramaic, similar to Jonathan, who paraphrases: And they were drawn after 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ the worship of God. And similarly (Ez. 7:11) ‘v’lo noah bahem’ and there is no use to attract them to 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ good. Menahem classifies this thus: ‘Va’yinahu’ is an expression of lamentation, like (Micah 2: 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ 4): ‘nehi nihyah’ “a lamentation shall be wailed.” And likewise, ‘v’lo noah bahem’ (will be 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ explained “and they have no remorse”). And the meaning of our verse is: They lamented their evil 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ deeds, and returned after the Lord. Another explanation is that ‘va’yinahu’ means “and they 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ gathered.” “And all nations will be gathered into it (Jerusalem)” (Jer. 3:17). Jonathan renders: And all 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ nations will gather (‘v’yithnahon’) to worship therein. The quotation from Ezekiel may also be 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ rendered in this manner: neither from them, nor from their multitude...nor from their gathering.  
\par \par }

