{\rtf1\ansi\deftab720\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f3\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fcharset1 Arial;}{\f5\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f6\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f7\fcharset1 Davidd;}{\f50\fcharset1 Davidd;}}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red192\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green0\blue160;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue0;}
\deflang1033\pard\par\plain\par\ql \par\ql \lang1033\ltrch\f5\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf5\cb13\ Chapter 65\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  
\par \lang1033\ltrch\f6\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf6\cb14\ 2\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ Silence is praise to You\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  Silence is praise to You; because there is no end to Your praise, the more 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ one praises, the more one detracts. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ O God in Zion\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  God, Who dwells in Zion. [I found the following: 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ make glorious His praise\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  Not effusion, but silence is praise. It appears that \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ ãîéä\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  means “praise God 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ with awe,” with the expression “praise Ya-h.” The name consisting of two letters is translated (Exod. 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ 15:2) as, the fear of God, for “My strength and my praise is God \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ (é-ä)\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ .” Also (Exod. 17:16), “For a 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ hand is on the throne of God \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ (é-ä)\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ .” And the expression (above 2:11): “and rejoice with 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ quaking” resembles this. Shem Ephraim comments: It appears to me that Rashi should read as follows: 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ Make glorious, etc.\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  But silence to God is praise, and its interpretation is: Praise Him with awe, 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ etc.” The intention is that the word \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ ãîéä\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  is divided into two words. For it was difficult for him to 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ understand why it should appear that one is to recite any praise of the Holy One, blessed be He. 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Therefore he says, “Make glorious His praise,” but not excessively, for that is equivalent to detracting. 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Therefore he says, “To You is silence \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ (ãåí)\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ ,” meaning that silence is fitting, but \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ é-ä\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  is praise, i.e., with 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ the name consisting of two letters. His statement that the expression, “rejoice with quaking” resembles 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ this, should read: “Worship the Lord with awe and rejoice with quaking.” His intention is that both 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ verses mean that one may worship the Lord with awe; that is, one may worship the Holy One, blessed 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ be He, with the name \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ é-ä\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ . Otherwise, worship with love is superior. It is also possible that the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ reading, “and it appears that, etc.” is a copyist’s error. It should read instead: “But be silent and praise 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Him with the name \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ é-ä\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ , in the expression Hallelujah. But this needs study. Later I found (below 68:5) 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ that Rashi writes something similar. There, for him to write that the expression “and rejoice with 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ quaking” resembles this is more appropriate, because there it says: “and rejoice before 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Him.” Compare. Therefore, it appears to me that this entire statement was erroneously copied here.) 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ The gloss belongs below 66:2.] Another explanation: \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ To You is silence praise, O God, in Zion\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  That 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ You were silent and still concerning Your enemies’ deeds in Zion is praise to You, for You are able to 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ take revenge, yet You are slow to anger.  
\par \par }

