{\rtf1\ansi\deftab720\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f3\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fcharset1 Arial;}{\f5\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f6\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f7\fcharset1 Davidd;}{\f50\fcharset1 Davidd;}}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red192\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green0\blue160;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue0;}
\deflang1033\pard\par\plain\par\ql \par\ql \lang1033\ltrch\f6\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf6\cb14\ 6\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ You have fed them bread of tears\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  in Egypt. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ and You have given them to drink tears in large 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ measure\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  Heb. \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ ùìéù\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ . In Babylon, where they were for seventy years, a third \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ (ùìéù)\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  of the two hundred 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ and ten of Egypt. I learned this from the work of Rabbi Moshe Hadarshan. It may also be interpreted 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ as regards the kingdom of Greece, which represents the third trouble. If you ask, is that [not] the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ fourth, because Persia and Media came before, all the seventy years of the Babylonian exile are only 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ one exile. Menachem (p. 175) interprets \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ ùìéù\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  as the name of a drinking vessel. So he explained (Isa. 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ 40:12): “and He measured with a ‘shalish’ the dust of the earth.” Our Sages explained it (Mid. Ps. 80: 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ 4) as referring to the three tears that Esau shed, concerning whom it is said (Gen. 27:34): “and he cried 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ a cry.” That is one. “A great one.” That is two. “And a bitter one.” That is three. Because of them, he 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ merited to live by his sword, as it is said (Gen. 27:40): “and it will come to pass when you complain, 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ etc.”  
\par \par }

