{\rtf1\ansi\deftab720\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f3\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fcharset1 Arial;}{\f5\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f6\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f7\fcharset1 Davidd;}{\f50\fcharset1 Davidd;}}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red192\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green0\blue160;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue0;}
\deflang1033\pard\par\plain\par\ql \par\ql \lang1033\ltrch\f5\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf5\cb13\ Chapter 88\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  
\par \lang1033\ltrch\f6\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf6\cb14\ 1\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ about the sick and afflicted one\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  Heb. \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ òì-îçìúìòðåú\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ , concerning the one sick with love and 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ afflicted, for she is afflicted with the pains of the exile. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ of Heman the Ezrahite\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  One of the musicians 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ who played a musical instrument, and the sons of Korah established this psalm that Heman should 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ recite it on the “duchan” [the platform]. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ of Heman the Ezrahite\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  He was one of the sons of Zerah the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ son of Judah, for his lineage is delineated in (I Chron. 2:6): “And the sons of Zerah were Zimri, Ethan, 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Heman, Chalcol, and Darda [sic].” All five were great sages, as is said in reference to Solomon (I 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Kings 5: 11): “And he was wiser than all men, than Ethan the Ezraite, and Heman, and Chalcol, and 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Darda, the sons of Mahol,” and they established the Psalms, which were set down in the Book of 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Psalms. Therefore, they are called the sons of Mahol. So have I found in exact commentaries. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ a 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ maskil\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  Wherever it says “maskil,” it was said through an interpreter. The prophet would set up an 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ interpreter before him, and when he perceived a prophecy coming upon him, he would recite the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ prophecy to the interpreter, who would make it heard.  
\par \par }

