{\rtf1\ansi\deftab720\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f3\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fcharset1 Arial;}{\f5\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f6\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f7\fcharset1 Davidd;}}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red192\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green0\blue160;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue0;}
\deflang1033\pard\par\plain\par\ql \par\ql \lang1033\ltrch\f6\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf6\cb14\ 4\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ For a thousand years are in Your eyes\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  A thousand years of man are like one day of the Holy One, 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ blessed be He, and part of the night with it; for one day of the Holy One, blessed He, and a little of the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ night of the Holy One, blessed be He, are a thousand years, for the text does not say that the day of 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ the Holy One, blessed be He, is like a thousand years, but that when a little of the night elapses with it, 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ then His day is complete, and it is a thousand years. Therefore, Adam died within a thousand [years] 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ for had he lived a thousand [years] it would be more than the day of the Holy One, blessed be He. 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Perhaps the amount of that watch equals the time from the death of Adam until a thousand years, but 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ we do not know how much that watch was, except from conjecture. I found [this]: \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ For a thousand 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ years are in Your eyes, etc.\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  And when repentance came into Your thoughts from the beginning, You 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ judged well and created it. Now those years were appropriate for it because people’s days were many, 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ so that a thousand years were in Your eyes like one passing day, which passed and was gone, with a 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ little of the night with it, for You said to Adam (Gen. 2:17): “for on the day you eat of it, you will 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ surely die,” and he lived nine hundred and thirty years. We find that a thousand years equal one whole 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ day and a little of the night with it. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ like yesterday, which passed\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  Which already passed.  
\par \par }

