{\rtf1\ansi\deftab720\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f3\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fcharset1 Arial;}{\f5\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f6\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f7\fcharset1 Davidd;}{\f50\fcharset1 Davidd;}}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red192\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green0\blue160;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue0;}
\deflang1033\pard\par\plain\par\ql \par\ql \lang1033\ltrch\f6\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf6\cb14\ 7\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ From the stream on the way he would drink, etc.\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  From the Nile River, on the way of its course, 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ his land would drink, and it was not in need of rain water. Therefore, he would raise his head and boast 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ (Ezek. 29:3): “My river is my own, and I made myself.” In another manner, this psalm can be 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ explained regarding David: [1] \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ The word of the Lord about my master\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  Concerning my master, Saul, 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ when I was pursued by him. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ about my master\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  Heb. \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ ìàãðé\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ , about my master, as (Exod. 14:3): “Then 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Pharaoh will say concerning the children of \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ (ìáðé)\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  Israel”; (Gen. 26:7), “The people of the place asked 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ him about his wife \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ (ìàùúå)\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ .” \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ “Wait for My right hand”\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  Stay and wait for My salvation. [2] \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ The staff 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ of your might the Lord will send from Zion\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  The exceptional good deeds in your hand. Another 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ explanation: You will yet reign in Zion, and there a staff of might will be sent to you, and then you will 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ rule in the midst of your enemies. [3] \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ Your people will volunteer on the day of your host\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  The people 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ of Israel will volunteer to your aid on the day that you form an army, as it is delineated in (I) 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Chronicles (12:21); that they were joining him from every tribe: “When he went to Ziklag, there 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ deserted to him of Manasseh, etc.”; (ibid. verse 8): “And from the Gadites there separated themselves 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ to David, etc.” \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ because of the beauty of holiness when you fell from the womb\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  Because of the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ beauty of holiness that was in you from your youth. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ your youth is like dew\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  A good youth and a good 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ period of maturity that you had will be to you like dew, which is pleasant and sweet, and will produce 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ fruit for you to make you prosper. [4] \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ The Lord has sworn, etc.\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  that the kingdom will be yours 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ forever. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ You are a priest forever\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  And which of the priesthoods? A priesthood that is above the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ priesthood of Malchizedek, and that is the kingdom, which is above the high priesthood in thirty steps. 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ above the charge of Malchizedek\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  above the priesthood (Some mss. read: above the charge) of 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Malchizedek, who was a priest to the Most High God. Now if you challenge that he too was a king, 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ [we answer that] the kingdom over the nations was not an esteemed kingdom when compared to 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Israel. [5] \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ The Lord\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  will always be on your right hand to save you, Who... \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ crushed kings on the day 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ of His wrath\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  Those who fought with Abraham and with Joshua and with Barak. [6] \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ He will execute 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ justice upon the nations [into] a heap of corpses\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  And further, in the days of Hezekiah your son, He 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ will execute justice upon the armies of Sennacherib [making them] a heap of dead corpses, and He will 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ crush Sennacherib, who is the head of Nineveh and Assyria, which is a great land, who... [7] \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ From the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ stream on the way\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  he was drinking, for he boasted that his armies drank from the waters of the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Jordan, as it is said (Isa. 37:25): “I dug and drank water, and I dry up, etc.” \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ therefore, he raised his 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ head\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  He praised himself and boasted of his greatness. 
\par \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  
\par \par }

