{\rtf1\ansi\deftab720\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f3\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fcharset1 Arial;}{\f5\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f6\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f7\fcharset1 Davidd;}}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red192\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green0\blue160;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue0;}
\deflang1033\pard\par\plain\par\ql \par\ql \lang1033\ltrch\f6\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf6\cb14\ 27\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ Bind the sacrifice with ropes\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  The sacrifices and the festival offerings, which were clean and 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ examined for a blemish, they would bind to the feet of their beds until they brought them to the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Temple court at the corners of the altar. It is also possible to interpret the entire end of this psalm from 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ (verse 17), “I shall not die but I shall live,” as referring to David himself: [18] \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ God has chastised me 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ For the episode of Bath sheba with torments, e.g. (II Sam. 12:6): “And the ewe-lamb he shall repay 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ fourfold.” David was stricken with zaraath for six months. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ but He has not delivered me to death\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  (II 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Sam. 13) “Also the Lord has removed your sin; you shall not die.” [19] \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ Open for me the gates of 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ righteousness\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  And these are the gates of righteousnessthose gates of synagogues and study halls, 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ which are the Lord’sand the righteous enter through them. [21] \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ I shall thank You because You have 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ answered me\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  From here on, David, Samuel, Jesse, and David’s brothers recited this, as is delineated 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ in [the chapter entitled] “The eves of Passovers,” (Pes. 119a). He who said this did not say the other. 
\par \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  
\par \par }

