{\rtf1\ansi\deftab720\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f3\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fcharset1 Arial;}{\f5\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f6\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f7\fcharset1 Davidd;}{\f50\fcharset1 Davidd;}}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red192\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green0\blue160;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue0;}
\deflang1033\pard\par\plain\par\ql \par\ql \lang1033\ltrch\f6\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf6\cb14\ 7\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ All the kinsmen of a poor man\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  lit. the brothers, the kinsmen. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ surely his friends distance 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ themselves\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  Surely his friends, his companions, and his lovers. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ he pursues statements that are fit for 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ him\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  He says, ìSo-and-so and so-and-so are my relatives. So-and-so and so-and-so are my 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ friends.î And all are words of futility. This can be interpreted as concerning one who is poor in Torah 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ and in good deeds. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ he pursues statements which are futile\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  He seeks to promulgate the halachah, but 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ it is not in his possession. The midrash interprets it as concerning Joseph, who spread slander about his 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ brothers. He would say to his father that they were suspected of [eating] limbs from a living animal. 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Therefore, they hated him, and he was called a poor man because he would spread false rumors about 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ them and look for statements that were not true \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ (Ï‡ ‰Ó‰)\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ . We read \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ ÏÂ\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ , ìto him,î for he would pursue 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ statements for his own benefit, and in Josephís matter, they were his, because his slander returned 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ upon him. He would say that they ate limbs from a living animal, but Scripture testifies about them that 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ even in the time of sin, they would slaughter a kid, as it is said: (Gen. 37:31) ìand they slaughtered a 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ kid.î He would say that they degraded the sons of the maidservants. Therefore, Joseph was sold as a 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ slave. He would say that they gazed upon the women of the land. Said the Holy One, blessed be 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ He, ìBy your life, I will incite a bear upon you.î Therefore, (ibid. 39:7) ìhis masterís wife lifted, 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ etc.î [This appears] in Genesis Rabbah [see 84:7].  
\par \par }

