{\rtf1\ansi\deftab720\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f3\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fcharset1 Arial;}{\f5\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f6\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f7\fcharset1 Davidd;}{\f50\fcharset1 Davidd;}}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red192\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green0\blue160;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue0;}
\deflang1033\pard\par\plain\par\ql \par\ql \lang1033\ltrch\f6\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf6\cb14\ 18\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ çøéöé äçìá\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  cheeses (Jonathan). \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ to the captain of the thousand\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  I say (that Jesse meant) “to the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ captain of that thousand to which I belong,” for all the tribes had captains of thousands “according to 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ their thousands” (This last phrase is vague). I have heard, however, that ‘to the captain of the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ thousand’ refers to Jonathan, concerning whom the Scripture states: “And a thousand were with 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Jonathan in Gibeah of Benjamin.” (supra 13:3). \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ and the tidings of their welfare you shall take\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  And 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ the assurance of their salvation and their welfare you shall take into your ears and your heart, and you 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ shall relate it to me. And so did Jonathan render: ‘and their welfare.’ \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ their welfare 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ (Heb. ‘arubatham,’) an expression of salvation, like (Ps. 119:112). “Assure your servant for 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ good,” ‘garantir’ in French. Our Rabbis said: He should take a bill of divorcement from them, and 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ deliver it to their wives, to break the connection between man and wife (lit., between him and her).  
\par \par }

