{\rtf1\ansi\deftab720\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f3\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fcharset1 Arial;}{\f5\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f6\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f7\fcharset1 Davidd;}{\f50\fcharset1 Davidd;}}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red192\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green0\blue160;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue0;}
\deflang1033\pard\par\plain\par\ql \par\ql \lang1033\ltrch\f6\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf6\cb14\ 55\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ Whose son is this youth,\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  Our Rabbis said: Did he not recognize him? Is it not stated: “And he 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ became his weapon bearer” (supra 16:21)? But, (rather this is the explanation): he saw him behaving 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ in a kingly manner. (Vid. supra v. 38) Said Saul, “If he comes from the family of Perez, he will be a 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ king, for the king may break fences \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ ôåøõ)\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ , related to \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ (ôøõ\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  to make a way for himself, and no one may 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ stop him. If, however, he comes from the family of Zerah, he will merely become an esteemed person. 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Said Doeg to him, “Before you ask whether or not he is descended from a family which qualifies him 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ for the throne, ask whether or not he is qualified to enter the congregation, (i.e., whether or not he may 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ marry among Jews) since he is descended from Ruth the Moabitess.” Said Abner to him, “We have 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ learned: An Ammonite (is forbidden, Deut. 23:3) but not an Ammonitess. (Similarly, a Moabite is 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ forbidden, but not a Moabitess.)” Said Doeg to him, “If so (let us say), a ‘mamzer’ (the male issue of a 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ union forbidden under penalty of extinction is forbidden,) and not a ‘mamzereth’ (the female issue of 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ such a union).” He replied, “It is stated here: Because they did not meet you with bread and water (v. 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ 5 ibid.), and it is not customary for a woman to do so.” He said to him, “Men should have met men, 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ and women should have met women.” Abner became silent. Saul said to him:  
\par \par }

