{\rtf1\ansi\deftab720\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f3\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fcharset1 Arial;}{\f5\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f6\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f7\fcharset1 Davidd;}{\f50\fcharset1 Davidd;}}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red192\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green0\blue160;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue0;}
\deflang1033\pard\par\plain\par\ql \par\ql \lang1033\ltrch\f5\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf5\cb13\ Job\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  
\par \lang1033\ltrch\f5\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf5\cb13\ Chapter 1\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  
\par \lang1033\ltrch\f6\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf6\cb14\ 1\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ There was a man in the land of Uz\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  This means in the land of Aram, as it is written (Gen. 22: 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ 21): “Uz, his firstborn,” of the sons of Nahor. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ and that man was\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  Although that is a future 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ expression, that is the style of the Hebrew language, and the proper expression for it is “Now that 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ man was greater than all the children of the land of the East”; the children of the land of the East, for 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Aram is in the east of the world, as it is stated (Num. 23:7): “From Aram has Balak, king of Moab, 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ brought me, from the mountains of the East.” Another explanation: Uz is Job. Buz is Elihu the son of 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Barachel the Buzite. This is what Job said (31:34): “and the most contemptible of families shatters 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ me.” This one (the Buzite) who shatters my words is of my family. This is what people say: “From 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ the very forest, the ax handle is formed.” Another explanation: \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ in the land of Uz\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  In the land whence 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ they take evil counsels against the Holy One, blessed be He. As it is stated (Gen. 10:11): “Out of that 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ land Asshur went forth.” Now what counsel did they take? “He has no right to take the upper worlds 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ and to give us the lower world.” Instead, come to the land of Shinar, where there are many gods, 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ concerning which it is stated: “for it is a land of graven images” (Jer. 50:38): “And let us make a 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ tower whose top shall reach to the heavens, and let us make a name for ourselves” (Gen. 11:4). The 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ word “name” stated here refers only to idolatry, as it is stated (Exod. 23:13): “You shall not make 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ mention of the name of other gods.” What did the Holy One, blessed be He, do? He sat in judgment 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ over them and stood up witnesses against them, as it is stated (Gen. 11:5): “And the Lord came 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ down to see the city and the tower.” Now does the Omnipresent have to come down to see? Is it not 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ written: “The eyes of the Lord are roving to and fro throughout the entire earth”? Rather, it is to 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ teach a ruling to future generations, that judges may not pass judgment except with eyewitnesses, as 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ it is stated (Lev.5:1): “Having seen or known.” \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ was\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  Heb. \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ åäéä\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ . According to its simple meaning, it is 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ like \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ åéäé\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ , and its meaning is both past and future. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ sincere and upright\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  But [I could think] that as 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ regards matters between him and his Maker, he was not righteous. Therefore, it is stated: God- 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ fearing and shunning evil.  
\par \par }

