{\rtf1\ansi\deftab720\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f3\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fcharset1 Arial;}{\f5\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f6\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f7\fcharset1 Davidd;}{\f50\fcharset1 Davidd;}}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red192\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green0\blue160;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue0;}
\deflang1033\pard\par\plain\par\ql \par\ql \lang1033\ltrch\f6\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf6\cb14\ 13\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ The fig tree has put forth its green figs\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  [This is to be explained] according to its apparent 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ meaning. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ and the vines with their tiny grapes\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  When the blossom falls, and the grapes are separated 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ from one another, and each grape is recognizable by itself, it is called \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ ñÀîÈãÇø\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ . This entire episode, 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ according to its simple meaning, is an expression of the affection of enticement, i.e., a young man 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ appealing to his betrothed to follow him. So did my beloved do to me. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ [10] My beloved raised his 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ voice\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  through Moses. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ and said to me\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  through Aaron. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ Arise, my beloved\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  Hurry (Exod. 11:2): “and let 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ each man borrow from his neighbor.” \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ [11] For behold, the winter has passed\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  These are the four 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ hundred years. I skipped them by counting them from Isaac’s birth. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ the rain\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  which is the hardship of 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ winter, is over and has gone away; i.e., eighty-six years of harsh slavery were decreed upon you, and 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ they have gone away. From the time that Miriam was born, the Egyptians intensified the bondage 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ upon Israel; therefore, she was called Miriam, because they made it bitter \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ (îÇø)\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  for them. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ [12] The 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ blossoms have appeared in the land\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  Behold Moses and Aaron are prepared for you to fulfill all your 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ needs. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ the time of singing has arrived\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  you are destined to recite the Song by the Sea. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ and the voice 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ of the turtledove\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  Heb. \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ äÇúÌåÉø\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ , the great guide \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ (úÌÇéÈø)\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ . Another explanation: \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ ÷åÉì äÇúÌåÉø\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  means the voice 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ [announcing] that the time of your exodus from Egypt has arrived. [\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ úÌåÉø\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  is explained to mean time, as 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ in Esther (2:12,15).] \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ [13] The fig tree put forth its green figs\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  The time to bring the first fruits has 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ arrived, for you will enter the Land. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ and the vines with their tiny grapes\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  The time of the wine 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ libations has drawn near. Another explanation: The pious among you ripened and blossomed good 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ deeds before Me and emitted a pleasant scent. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ arise\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  Heb. \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ ÷åÌîÄé ìÈëÄé\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ . A superfluous “yud” is written. 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Arise to receive the Ten Commandments. Another explanation: “The fig tree has put forth its green 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ figs”—These are the transgressors of Israel, who perished during the three days of darkness. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ and the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ vines with their tiny grapes gave forth their fragrance\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  Those who remained of them repented and 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ were accepted. So it is interpreted in Pesikta (Rabbathi 15:11, 12; Pesikta d’Rav Kahana, p. 50).  
\par \par }

