{\rtf1\ansi\deftab720\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f3\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fcharset1 Arial;}{\f5\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f6\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f7\fcharset1 Davidd;}{\f50\fcharset1 Davidd;}}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red192\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green0\blue160;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue0;}
\deflang1033\pard\par\plain\par\ql \par\ql \lang1033\ltrch\f6\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf6\cb14\ 11\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ 0 daughters of Zion\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  Heb. \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ ˆƒÈÂ…Ô\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ . [This refers to] the sons, who are distinguished \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ (Ó¿ˆÀÈ»ƒÈÔ)\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  for Him 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ with circumcision, phylacteries, and ritual fringes. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ upon the crown with which his mother crowned 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ him\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  [This refers to] the Tent of Meeting, which is crowned with hues: blue, purple, and crimson. Rabbi 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Nehunia said: Rabbi Simeon bar Yohai asked Rabbi Eleazar the son of Rabbi Jose, ìPerhaps you 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ heard from your father what the meaning of ëupon the crown with which his mother crowned 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ himí is?î He replied: ìThis is a parable of a king who had an only daughter of whom he was very fond. 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ He could not stop loving her until he called her ìmy daughter,î as it is said (Ps. 45:11): ìHearken, 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ daughter, and see.î He could not stop loving her until he called her ìmy sister,î as it is said (below 5: 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ 2): ìOpen for me, my sister, my beloved.î He could not stop loving her until he called her ìmy 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ mother,î as it is said (Isa. 51:4): ìHearken to Me, My people, and My nation \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ (ÂÃÏ¿‡ÂÃÓƒÈ)\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ , bend your 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ ears.î It is written: \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ ÂÃÏ¿‡ÀÓƒÈ\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  [which can be read as \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ ÂÃÏ¿‡ƒÓƒÈ\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ , and to my mother]. Rabbi Simeon bar Yohai 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ stood up and kissed him on his head, etc. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ on the day of his nuptials\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  the day of the giving of the Torah, 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ when they crowned Him King for themselves and accepted His yoke. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ and on the day of the joy of his 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ heart\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  This refers to the eighth day of the inauguration, when the Tabernacle in the desert was 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ dedicated. 
\par \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  
\par \par }

