{\rtf1\ansi\deftab720\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f3\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fcharset1 Arial;}{\f5\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f6\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f7\fcharset1 Davidd;}{\f50\fcharset1 Davidd;}}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red192\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green0\blue160;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue0;}
\deflang1033\pard\par\plain\par\ql \par\ql \lang1033\ltrch\f6\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf6\cb14\ 2\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ Your teeth are like a flock of uniformly shaped [ewes]\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  This praise too is in terms of a womanís 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ beauty. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ Your teeth\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  are thin and white and arranged like wool and the order of a flock of ewes, 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ selected from the rest of the flocks by count and number, delivered to a clever and worthy shepherd 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ to be careful with their wool, for they make them into fine woolen garments, and they watch them 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ from the time of their birth, that the wool should not become soiled, and they wash them from day to 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ day. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ all of whom are perfect\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  Heb. \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Ó«˙¿‡ƒÈÓÂ…˙\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ , an expression of perfection, (Ps. 38:4): ìThere is no 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ soundness \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ (Ó¿˙…Ì)\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ ,î i.e., perfect, enterins in Old French, whole, perfect, sound. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ bereavement\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  There is 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ neither bereavement nor blemish among them. This example is given as symbolic of the mighty men 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ of Israel, who cut down and devour their enemies surrounding them with their teeth, and yet they 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ distance themselves from stealing from Israelites and from immoral acts, so that they should not 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ become sullied with sin. Now this praise was given concerning the twelve thousand men who 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ mobilized against Midian with count and number, of whom not one was suspected of committing 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ immoral acts, as it is written (Num. 31:49): ìand not a single man among us is missing.î And they 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ even brought atonements for erotic thoughts, and they were not suspected of theft, for Scripture 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ attests for them, (ibid. verses 11f.): ìAnd they took all the booty and they brought it to Moses and to 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Eleazar the priest, etc.,î and not one of them concealed even one cow or one donkey.  
\par \par }

