{\rtf1\ansi\deftab720\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f3\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fcharset1 Arial;}{\f5\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f6\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f7\fcharset1 Davidd;}{\f50\fcharset1 Davidd;}}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red192\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green0\blue160;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue0;}
\deflang1033\pard\par\plain\par\ql \par\ql \lang1033\ltrch\f6\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf6\cb14\ 8\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ With me from Lebanon, my bride\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  When you will be exiled from this Lebanon, with Me you will 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ be exiled, for I will go into exile with you. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ with me from Lebanon shall you come\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  And when you 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ return from the exile, I will return with you, and also all the days of the exile, I will be distressed with 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ your distress. Therefore, he writes: “with Me from Lebanon you shall come.” When you are exiled 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ from this Lebanon, you shall come with Me, and he does not write: “with Me to Lebanon you shall 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ come,” denoting that from the time of your departure from here until the time of your arrival here, I 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ am with you wherever you go out and come in. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ you shall look from the peak of Amanah\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  When I 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ gather your dispersed ones, you will look and ponder what is the reward of your actions from the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ beginning of your faith \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ (àÆîåÌðÈä)\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  that you believed in Me (Tan. Beshallach 10), your following Me in 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ the desert and your travels and your encampments by My command, and your coming to the peak of 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Senir and Hermon, which were the dens of lions, namely Sihon and Og (Song Rabbah, Mid. Zuta). 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Another explanation: From the peak of Amanah. This is a mountain on the northern boundary of the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Land of Israel, named Amanah, and in the language of the Mishnah, the mountains of Amnon, and 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ [this is] Mount Hor, about which it says: (Num. 34:6): “from the Great Sea you shall draw a line 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ extending to Mount Hor.” When the exiles gather and arrive there, they will look from there and see 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ the boundary of the Land of Israel and the air of Israel, and they will rejoice and utter thanks. 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Therefore, it says: “You shall see from the peak of Amanah.”  
\par \par }

