{\rtf1\ansi\deftab720\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f3\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fcharset1 Arial;}{\f5\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f6\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f7\fcharset1 Davidd;}{\f50\fcharset1 Davidd;}}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red192\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green0\blue160;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue0;}
\deflang1033\pard\par\plain\par\ql \par\ql \lang1033\ltrch\f6\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf6\cb14\ 16\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ His palate is sweet\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  His words are pleasant. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ this is my beloved\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  This is the likeness of my beloved, 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ and this is the likeness of my friend, and because of all these things I have become ill for his love. The 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ allegorical meaning, symbolizing the Holy One, blessed be He, is as follows: \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ [10] My beloved is white 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ to whiten my iniquities. Clear and white; when He appeared at Sinai, He appeared as an old man, 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ teaching instructions, and so, when He sits in judgment (Dan. 7:9): “His garment was like white snow, 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ and the hair of His head was like clean wool.” \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ and ruddy\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  to exact retribution upon His enemies, as it 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ is stated (Isa. 63.2): “Why is Your clothing red?” \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ surrounded by myriads\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  Many armies encompass 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Him. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ [11] His head is as the finest gold\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  The beginning of His words shone like finest gold, and so 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Scripture says (Ps. 119:130): “The commencement of Your words enlightens.” The commencement 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ of, “I am the Lord your God” showed them first that He has the right of sovereignty over them, and 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ He then issued His decrees upon them. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ his locks are curled\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  Heb. \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ ÷ÀåËöåÉúÈéå úÌÇìÀúÌÇìÄéí\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ . Upon every 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ point \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ (÷åÉõ åÈ÷åÉõ)\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  [of the letters of the Sepher Torah] were heaps of heaps \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ (úÌÄìÅé úÌÄÄìÄéí)\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  of halachoth. 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ black as a raven\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  because it was written before Him in black fire on white fire. Another explanation: 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ His locks were curled when He appeared on the sea, appearing like a young man mightily waging war. 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ [12] His eyes are like doves beside rivulets of water\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  Like doves, whose eyes look toward their 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ dovecotes, so are His eyes on the synagogues and study halls, for there are the sources of Torah, 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ which is compared to water. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ bathing in milk\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  When they look into the judgment, they clarify the law 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ in its true light, to justify the just, to give him what he deserves, and to condemn the guilty, to repay his 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ [evil] way upon his head. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ fitly set\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  on the fullness of the world. They wander over the entire earth, 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ gazing upon good and evil. Another explanation: Torah scholars, whom the Holy One, blessed be He, 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ makes as eyes to illuminate the world, just as the eyes illuminate for man; like doves that wander from 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ dovecote to dovecote to seek their food, so do they go from the study hall of one sage to the study hall 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ of another sage, to seek the explanations of the Torah. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ by rivulets of water\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  in the study halls, which 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ are the sources of the water of Torah. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ bathing in milk\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  Since he calls them eyes, and the eye \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ (òÇéÄï)\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  is a 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ feminine noun, bathing \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ (øåÉçÂöåÉú)\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  is in the feminine conjugation. They cleanse themselves with the milk 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ of Torah and whiten (clarify) its mysteries and enigmas. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ fitly set\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  They resolve the matters 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ appropriately. Another explanation: His eyes \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ òÅéðÈéå\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ , [like] \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ òÄðÀéÈðÈéå\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  His topics. The sections of the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Torah, the halachoth, and the Mishnayoth are like doves which are comely in their walk beside the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ rivulets of water, [i.e.,] in the study halls; bathing in milk, made clear as milk, as I have explained. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ [13] 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ His jaws\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  the commandments of Mount Sinai, for He showed them a friendly and smiling countenance. 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ his lips are like roses\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  the commandments (lit. statements) that He spoke in the Tent of Meeting, 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ which are for appeasement and for atonement and for a pleasant fragrance: the law of the sin offering, 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ the guilt offering, the meal offering, the burnt offering, and the peace offering. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ [14] His hands\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Tablets, which He gave with His right hand, which are the work of His hands. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ wheels of gold\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  These 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ are the commandments, about which it is said (Ps. 19:11): “They are to be desired more than gold, yea 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ more than much fine gold.” Said Rabbi Joshua the son of Nehemiah: They were made miraculously. 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ They were of sapphire, yet they could be rolled (Song Rabbah, Tanch. Ki Thissa 26). Another 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ explanation: because they bring about (lit. roll) much good to the world. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ set with chrysolite\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  He 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ included the 613 commandments in the Decalogue. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ his abdomen is [as] a block of ivory\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  This is the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Priestly Code (Leviticus), placed in the center of the Five Books of the Pentateuch, like the intestines, 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ which are set in the middle of the body. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ [as] a block of ivory, overlaid with sapphires\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  It appears as 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ smooth as a block of ivory, and is set with many details [derived from] similar wordings, general 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ principles, and inferences from minor to major. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ [15] founded upon sockets of fine gold\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  Said Rabbi 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Eleazar Hakkappar: This pillar has a capitol above and a base below. Said Rabbi Samuel the son of 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Gadda: The sections of the Torah have a capitol above and a base below, and they are juxtaposed 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ before them and after them, e.g., the sections of the Sabbatical year and the Jubilee year, [are 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ juxtaposed to] (Lev. 25:14): “And if you transact a sale,” to teach you how severe the dust (i.e., a 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ minor infraction) of the Sabbatical Year is, as appears in Tractates Bava Metzia and Arachin (30b). 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Also, like (Num. 27:16): “May the Lord...appoint a man over the congregation,” and (ibid. 29: 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ 2): “Command...My sacrifice, My bread.” Before you command Me about My children, command 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ them about Me (Sifrei Num. 27:23), and similarly, many [such instances]. Therefore, it is stated: “His 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ legs are [as] pillars of marble, founded, etc.” \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ his appearance is like the Lebanon\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  One who reflects 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ and ponders over His words finds in them blossoms and sprouts, like a forest which blooms. So are the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ words of Torah—whoever meditates over them constantly finds new explanations in them. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ chosen 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Heb. \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ áÌÈçåÌø\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ , chosen as the cedars, which are chosen for building and for strength and height. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ [16] His 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ palate is sweet\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  His words are pleasant, e.g. (Lev. 19:28): “And you shall not make a wound in your 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ flesh for one who has died...I am the Lord,” faithful to pay reward. Is there a palate sweeter than this? 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Do not wound yourselves, and you will receive reward. (Ezek. 33:19): “And when a wicked man 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ repents of his wickedness and performs justice and righteousness, he shall live because of 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ them.” Iniquities are accounted to him as merits. Is there a palate sweeter than this? 
\par \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  
\par \par }

