{\rtf1\ansi\deftab720\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f3\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fcharset1 Arial;}{\f5\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f6\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f7\fcharset1 Davidd;}{\f50\fcharset1 Davidd;}}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red192\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green0\blue160;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue0;}
\deflang1033\pard\par\plain\par\ql \par\ql \lang1033\ltrch\f6\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf6\cb14\ 8\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ There are sixty queens\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  Abraham and his descendants (Song Zuta). The sons of Keturah are sixteen. 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Ishmael and his sons are thirteen. Isaac and his sons are three. The sons of Jacob are twelve. The sons 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ of Esau are sixteen, thus totaling sixty. And if you say that Timna should be excluded because she was 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ a woman, then count Abraham in the number. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ and eighty concubines\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  Noah and his sons until 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Abraham, all the generations of those who left the Ark (Song Zuta)óyou will find them to be eighty. 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ And just as the queens, who are the kingsí wives, are superior in greatness to the concubines, so were 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Abraham and his descendants of great esteem, and superior in their esteem over everyone, as you will 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ see. Hagar was the daughter of kings [and became Sarahís maidservant (Gen. Rabbah 45:1)]. Timna 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ was the daughter of rulers and became Esauís concubine (ibid. 82:15), and Scripture says (Gen. 14: 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ 17): ìto the Valley of Shaveh \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ (˘—»Â∆‰)\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ , etc.î They all unanimously \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ (‰À˘¿ÂÂÃ)\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  resolved to make Abraham 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ king over them. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ and innumerable maidens\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  All these were divided into many families.  
\par \par }

