{\rtf1\ansi\deftab720\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f3\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fcharset1 Arial;}{\f5\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f6\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f7\fcharset1 Davidd;}}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red192\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green0\blue160;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue0;}
\deflang1033\pard\par\plain\par\ql \par\ql \lang1033\ltrch\f6\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf6\cb14\ 11\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ I went down to the nut garden\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  This too is included in the words of the Shechinah: “Behold I came 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ to this Second Temple to you.” \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ to see the green plants of the valley\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  what moisture of good deeds I 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ would see in you. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ whether the vine had blossomed\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  whether you caused Torah scholars, scribes, and 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ teachers of Mishnah to blossom. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ the pomegranates were in bloom\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  [This refers to] those who fulfill 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ the commandments, who are full of merits. Why were the Israelites compared to a nut? Just as this 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ nut—all you see is wood, and what is inside is not discernible, and you crack it and find it full of 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ sections of edible food, so are the Israelites modest and humble in their deeds, and the students among 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ them are not discernible, and they do not boast by announcing their [own] praise. But if you examine 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ him, you find him full of wisdom. There are many additional homiletic interpretations of this matter. 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Just as if this nut falls into the mud, its interior does not become sullied, so are the Israelites exiled 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ among the nations and smitten with many blows, but their deeds are not sullied.  
\par \par }

