{\rtf1\ansi\deftab720\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f3\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fcharset1 Arial;}{\f5\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f6\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f7\fcharset1 Davidd;}}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red192\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green0\blue160;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue0;}
\deflang1033\pard\par\plain\par\ql \par\ql \lang1033\ltrch\f6\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf6\cb14\ 3\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ Your navel is [like] a round basin\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  Your navel is like a basin of clear water with which they wash, 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ and it [the basin] is made of marble, which in Arabic is called “sahar.” He compares it to a round basin 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ because the navel is shaped like a round hole. This praise does not refer to a woman’s beauty as the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ above praise does, for [in] the above, her beloved praises her, but here, her companions praise her 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ about her deeds, saying: You are worthy to join us. The image symbolizes the Chamber of Hewn 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Stone, which is situated in the “navel” of the world. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ where no mixed wine is lacking\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  No beverage 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ will ever cease [to be found] there; he wishes to say that no words of instruction will cease or end 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ from there. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ your belly is [like] a stack of wheat\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  which everyone needs. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ fenced in with roses\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  fenced 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ and hedged about with roses. A light fence suffices her, and no one breaches it to enter. For example, 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ a bridegroom enters the nuptial canopy, his heart longing for the nuptials and for the love of his 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ marriage. When he comes to cohabit with her, she says to him, “I have perceived a drop of blood like 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ [the size of] a mustard seed.” He turns his face the other way. Now no snake bit him, nor did a 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ scorpion sting him. [Similarly,] one passes by on the road and sees freshly ripened fruit at the top of 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ the fig trees. He stretches out his hand to take [them]. They tell him, “These belong to owners,” and he 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ too withdraws his hand because of [the prohibition] of theft. This is the meaning of “she is fenced in 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ with roses.”  
\par \par }

