{\rtf1\ansi\deftab720\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f3\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fcharset1 Arial;}{\f5\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f6\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f7\fcharset1 Davidd;}{\f50\fcharset1 Davidd;}}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red192\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green0\blue160;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue0;}
\deflang1033\pard\par\plain\par\ql \par\ql \lang1033\ltrch\f5\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf5\cb13\ Ecclesiastes\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  
\par \lang1033\ltrch\f5\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf5\cb13\ Chapter 1\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  
\par \lang1033\ltrch\f6\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf6\cb14\ 1\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ The words of Koheleth\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  Wherever it says, “the words of,” it refers to words of reproof. (Deut. 1: 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ 1): “These are the words that Moses spoke”... (ibid. 32:15): “And Jeshurun became fat.” (Amos 1: 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ 1): “The words of Amos”... (ibid. 4:1): “Hearken to this word, O cows of Bashan.” (Jer. 1:1): “The 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ words of Jeremiah”... (ibid. 30:6): “Ask now and see whether a male gives birth, etc.” (II Sam. 23: 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ 1): “And these are the words of David”... (verse 6): “But the wicked are all as thorns thrust 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ away.” “The words of Koheleth...The sun rises...All the rivers run into the sea.” He refers to the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ wicked as the sun, the moon, and the sea, which have no reward. So it was taught in Sifrei (Deut. 1:1). 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ I learned from there that the section deals with the wicked and compares them to the rising of the sun, 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ which ultimately sets. Addendum: Another explanation: All the rivers run into the sea. What is the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ meaning of this? This is stated concerning idolaters, the fools who prostrate themselves to the water 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ and think that it has substance since they see the Great Sea, into which all the rivers run, and it is not 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ full, but they do not know that to the place where the rivers flow, they repeatedly go, for the water of 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ the rivers that flow into the sea is the very same water that already flowed. They flow from under the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ deep and go above the ground until the sea and repeatedly flow. Therefore, the rivers do not stop, and 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ the sea does not become full, and not because they have substance. End of addendum. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ Koheleth 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Because he gathered \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ (÷ÄäÅì)\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  many wisdoms, and similarly, elsewhere (Prov. 30:1) Scripture calls him 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Agur the son of Jakeh, because he gathered \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ (àÈâÇø)\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  all the wisdom and vomited it \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ (åÀäÄ÷ÄéàÈä)\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ , and some 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ say that he would say all his words in an assembly \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ (áÌÀäÇ÷ÀäÅì)\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ . \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ king in Jerusalem\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  the city of wisdom.  
\par \par }

