{\rtf1\ansi\deftab720\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f3\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fcharset1 Arial;}{\f5\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f6\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f7\fcharset1 Davidd;}{\f50\fcharset1 Davidd;}}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red192\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green0\blue160;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue0;}
\deflang1033\pard\par\plain\par\ql \par\ql \lang1033\ltrch\f6\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf6\cb14\ 19\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ are not many\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  for there is no longevity in this world. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ For let him remember that the days of his 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ life\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  for they are few and not many; so why should he toil to accumulate wealth? Let him toil in his 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ lifetime with a thing that endures for him in the World to Come. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ for God is testimony, etc.\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  The Holy 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ One, blessed be He, [testifies] a constant testimony about this forever. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ of the joy of his heart\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  that he 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ rejoiced to do good in his lifetime, and I saw in the Midrash (Ecc. Rabbah): This refers to Elkanah, 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ who led Israel up to Shiloh on the festivals, and on the way that he brought them up on one year he did 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ not bring them up the foll owing year, in order to publicize the matter and to accustom them [to 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ perform the pilgrimage]. Therefore, Scripture praises him (I Sam. 1:3): “And that man was wont to go 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ up from his city, etc.” I believe [lit., I say] that this Midrash is [based on] the end of the verse: “for 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ God is testimony of the joy of his heart.” This is Elkanah, whom the Holy One, blessed be He, 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ established in the Scriptures, and testified about him: “And that man was wont to go up from his 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ city.” \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ testimony\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  Heb. \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ îÇòÂðÆä\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ . This is vowelized with a “pattah kattan” (seggol). Therefore, I explain it 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ as a noun, like (Job 32:5): “for there was no answer \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ (îÇòÂðÆä)\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  in the mouth of the three men.” \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ of the joy 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ of his heart\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  that he was happy on the festival. 
\par \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  
\par \par }

