{\rtf1\ansi\deftab720\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f3\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fcharset1 Arial;}{\f5\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f6\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f7\fcharset1 Davidd;}}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red192\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green0\blue160;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue0;}
\deflang1033\pard\par\plain\par\ql \par\ql \lang1033\ltrch\f6\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf6\cb14\ 2\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ It is better to go to a house of mourning\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  a type of conduct that serves both the living and the dead. 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ than to go to a house of feasting\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  A type of conduct that serves only the living. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ for that is the end of 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ every man\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  Since mourning marks the end of every man, every man will ultimately come to this. 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Therefore, the living should put his heart [to the fact] that whatever loving-kindness I bestow upon the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ dead, I will require that they bestow the same to me upon my death. He who raises his voice in 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ lamentation—they will raise their voices in lamentation for him; he who bears the dead—they will 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ bear him; he who eulogizes—they will eulogize him; he who escorts [the dead]—they will escort him 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ (Ecc. Rabbah, Keth. 72a). Another explanation: \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ for that is the end of every man:\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  For that is the end 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ of the whole man; for death is the end of all man’s days, and if now he does not bestow kindness upon 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ him, he will no longer bestow it upon him, but if he invited him to a house of feasting and he did not 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ go, he can say to him, “A son will ultimately be born to you, and there I will be with you. The joy of 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ your children’s wedding will come to you, and there I will go.” \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ and the living shall lay it to his heart 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ this matter, that if he does not bestow kindness now, he will no longer [have the opportunity to] 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ bestow it upon him.  
\par \par }

