{\rtf1\ansi\deftab720\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f3\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fcharset1 Arial;}{\f5\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f6\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f7\fcharset1 Davidd;}}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red192\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green0\blue160;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue0;}
\deflang1033\pard\par\plain\par\ql \par\ql \lang1033\ltrch\f6\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf6\cb14\ 21\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ Also take no heed of all the words, etc.\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  Because he is speaking of Saul, who accepted slander 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ about Nob the priestly city, and concerning him it was stated: “Be not overly wicked,” he says: “Also 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ take no heed of all the words” that talebearers speak to you; do not take heed to accept them. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ lest you 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ hear your servant curse you\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  It is not good that you bend your ear to hear your servant cursing you. 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Another explanation: \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ [19] more than ten rulers\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  These are the ten things that condemn a person. His 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ two eyes [which] show him sinful things, his two ears [which] enable him to hear idle talk, his two 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ hands with which he robs and plunders, his two feet which lead him to sinful acts, and his mouth and 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ his heart (Ecc. Zuta). Another explanation: \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ Wisdom affords strength to the wise\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  This is Noah. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ more 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ than ten rulers\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  more than the ten generations that were before him (Ecc. Rabbah). Another 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ explanation: \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ to the wise\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  This is Abraham. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ more than ten rulers\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  more than the ten generations that 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ were before him (Ecc. Rabbah). Another explanation: \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ to the wise\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  This is Joseph. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ more than ten 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ rulers\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  These are his brothers (Ecc. Zuta). Another explanation: \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ to the wise\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  This is Moses. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ ten rulers 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ the ten organs that minister to the body with food. From the mouth to the esophagus, from the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ esophagus to the stomach, etc., as appears in Midrash Koheleth (Ecc. Rabbah), but Moses’ wisdom 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ stood him in good stead so that he did not require food for forty days and forty nights. All these 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ interpretations appear in the Midrash, but I do not know how to reconcile them with the following 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ verse: “For there is no righteous man on the earth.” \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ All this I tested with wisdom\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  This refers to the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ verses below and (some editions: not) to the verses above.  
\par \par }

