{\rtf1\ansi\deftab720\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f3\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fcharset1 Arial;}{\f5\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f6\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f7\fcharset1 Davidd;}{\f50\fcharset1 Davidd;}}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red192\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green0\blue160;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue0;}
\deflang1033\pard\par\plain\par\ql \par\ql \lang1033\ltrch\f6\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf6\cb14\ 27\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ See, this I have found, said Koheleth, adding one to another to find out the account\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  All the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ commandments that the righteous perform and the transgressions that the wicked commit are counted 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ before the Holy One, blessed be He, one to another, until they add up to a large sum. So did our 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Rabbis explain it in Tractate Sotah (8b). \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ said Koheleth\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  said the collection of wisdom, and said his 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ intellectual soul, which collects the wisdom. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ Koheleth\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  This is a feminine noun, and when it is used in 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ the masculine sense, it refers to the one who gathers it, and that is Solomon. In the Midrash (Ecc. 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Zuta): Said Rabbi Jeremiah the son of Eleazar: The holy spirit sometimes speaks in the masculine 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ gender and sometimes it speaks in the feminine gender. One verse says (Ps. 70:6): ìYou are my help 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ (Ú∆Ê¿¯ƒÈ)\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  and my rescuer,î and one verse says (ibid. 40:18): ìYou are my help \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ (Ú∆Ê¿¯»˙ƒÈ)\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  and my 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ rescuer.î One verse says: (Nahum 2:1): ìa herald \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ (Ó¿·«˘Ã“≈¯)\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  announcing peace,î and one verse says (Isa. 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ 40:9): ìthe voice of (sic) the herald \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ (Ó¿·«˘Ã“∆¯∆˙)\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  of Zion.î  
\par \par }

