{\rtf1\ansi\deftab720\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f3\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fcharset1 Arial;}{\f5\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f6\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f7\fcharset1 Davidd;}}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red192\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green0\blue160;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue0;}
\deflang1033\pard\par\plain\par\ql \par\ql \lang1033\ltrch\f6\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf6\cb14\ 15\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ joy\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  for he should rejoice in his lot and engage in the “upright commands,”(See Ps. 19:9) which 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ cause the heart to rejoice, and he should not be absorbed in increasing his wealth with usury and 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ interest and robbery. Whoever does not rejoice in his lot and is absorbed in amassing money, 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ eventually commits the sins of robbery, fraud, and taking interest. One who does not rejoice in his lot 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ concerning the love of his wife, has a passionate lust for women, and harbors erotic thoughts about 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ married women. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ to eat and to drink\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  from what the Holy One, blessed be He, graciously granted him, 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ and to rejoice with his lot. And [according to] the Midrash Aggadah (Ecc. Rabbah 2:26): All mention 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ of eating and drinking in Ecclesiastes, refers only to the study of Torah, as it is stated (Isa. 55:1): “go, 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ buy and eat, etc.” \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ and that will accompany him\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  will join him, as it is stated (ibid. 58:8): “and your 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ righteousness shall go before you.” \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ the days of his life that God gave him\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  he shall do so, and the end 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ of the verse is connected to its beginning, and it is a transposed verse, [to be interpreted thus:] there is 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ nothing better for man in the days of his life that God gave him than to eat, drink and rejoice, and that 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ will accompany him in his toil.  
\par \par }

