{\rtf1\ansi\deftab720\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f3\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fcharset1 Arial;}{\f5\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f6\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f7\fcharset1 Davidd;}{\f50\fcharset1 Davidd;}}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red192\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green0\blue160;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue0;}
\deflang1033\pard\par\plain\par\ql \par\ql \lang1033\ltrch\f5\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf5\cb13\ Chapter 10\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  
\par \lang1033\ltrch\f6\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf6\cb14\ 1\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ Dying flies make putrid and foamy, etc.\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  e.g., in the winter season, when the flies have no strength, 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ and they are near death: if it falls into the oil of a perfumer and becomes mingled with the perfumes, it 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ causes it to become putrid and it assumes a foam, which is called zecume in Old French, foam, froth, 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ bubbles, and a sort of bubbles \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ (‡¬·«Ú¿·ÃÂÃÚÂ…˙)\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  appears in it, and this is the meaning of \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ È«·ÃƒÈÚ«\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ . Hence we 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ have an insignificant thing spoiling an important thing. So does a little folly outweigh wisdom and 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ honor, for it outweighed them all. Let us suppose that this man was equal with half transgressions and 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ half merits, and he came and committed one transgression, which weighed him down to the scale of 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ demerit. It is found that this folly, which is a small thing, is heavy and weighs and is heavier than all 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ the wisdom and the honor that were in him, for behold, it outweighed them all. \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ È»˜»¯\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  is an expression of 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ weight. It is heavy and weighs more than the wisdom and the honor in him. The Midrash Aggadah 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ (Ber. 61a) states: Scripture compares the evil inclination to dying flies. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ makes putrid and foamy\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  a 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ good name, which is more pleasant than the oil of a perfumer.  
\par \par }

