{\rtf1\ansi\deftab720\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f3\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fcharset1 Arial;}{\f5\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f6\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f7\fcharset1 Davidd;}}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red192\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green0\blue160;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue0;}
\deflang1033\pard\par\plain\par\ql \par\ql \lang1033\ltrch\f6\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf6\cb14\ 2\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ Give a portion to seven and even to eight\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  If you have shared your food and your drink with seven 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ who need kindness, share further with eight who come after them, and do not say, “Enough.” \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ for you 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ do not know what evil will be\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  Perhaps days will yet come and you will need them all. Then you will 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ be saved from the evil by this charity, and if not now, when? Our Sages, however, said: \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ Give a 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ portion, etc.\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  These are the seven days of Creation. Give one of them as a portion to your Creator, to 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ rest on the Sabbath. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ and even to eight\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  These are the eight days preceding circumcision. Another 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ explanation: \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ Give a portion to seven\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  the communal sacrifices of the seven days of Passover. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ and 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ even to eight\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  days of the Festival [of Succoth]. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ for you do not know what evil will be\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  if the Temple 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ will be destroyed, and you will not sacrifice any longer, and the first sacrifices will avail to annul the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ evil decree. Another explanation: \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ for you do not know what will be\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  You do not know what has been 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ decreed on the rains on the Festival [of Succoth], and the sacrifices will avail, and they will annul evil 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ decrees.  
\par \par }

