{\rtf1\ansi\deftab720\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f3\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fcharset1 Arial;}{\f5\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f6\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f7\fcharset1 Davidd;}}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red192\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green0\blue160;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue0;}
\deflang1033\pard\par\plain\par\ql \par\ql \lang1033\ltrch\f6\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf6\cb14\ 6\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ In the morning, sow your seed\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  If your learned Torah in your youth, learn Torah in your old age. 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ If you had disciples in your youth, you should have disciples in your old age. If you married a 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ woman of childbearing age in your youth, you should marry a woman of childbearing age in your old 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ age. If you performed acts of kindness in your youth, perform acts of kindness in your old age. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ for 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ you know not which will succeed\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  whether the disciples and the children of your youth will survive 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ you, or perhaps only those of your old age will survive. We find in the case of Rabbi Akiva that he 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ had twenty-four thousand disciples from Gabbath to Antipatris, and they all died between Passover 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ and Shavuoth, and he came to our Sages in the south and taught them. And concerning children, we 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ find in the case of Ibzan, (Jud. 12:9): “and thirty daughters he sent abroad, and thirty daughters he 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ brought in for his sons,” and they all died in his lifetime (Baba Bathra 91a), but in his old age, he 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ begot Obed, who survived him.  
\par \par }

