{\rtf1\ansi\deftab720\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f3\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fcharset1 Arial;}{\f5\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f6\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f7\fcharset1 Davidd;}{\f50\fcharset1 Davidd;}}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red192\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green0\blue160;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue0;}
\deflang1033\pard\par\plain\par\ql \par\ql \lang1033\ltrch\f6\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf6\cb14\ 6\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ Before the silver cord snaps\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  This is the spinal cord, which is as white as silver, and when he dies, 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ its marrow diminishes and empties out and dries and becomes crooked within the vertebrae, and it 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ becomes like a chain. \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ éÅøÈúÅ÷\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  is an expression of silver chains \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ (øÀúË÷åÉú)\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ . \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ and the golden fountain is 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ shattered\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  This is the male organ, which emits a flow of water (urine), which flows like a fountain, like 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ (Josh. 15:19): “the upper springs \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ (âËìÌÉÉú)\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ .” \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ åÀúÈøËõ\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  is an expression of shattering \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ (øÀöÄéöÈä)\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ . \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ and the pitcher 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ breaks at the fountain\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  This is the stomach, which is thick and splits upon his death. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ and the wheel 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ falls shattered into the pit\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  The eyeball will be shattered within its socket. According to its simple 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ interpretation, this is a wheel with which they draw water from the cistern. So is this entire matter 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ expounded in Tractate Shabbath (151b 152a). Midrash Kinoth (Lam. Rabbah, Proem 23), however, 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ interprets it as referring to all Israel: [1] \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ And remember your Creator in the days of your youth\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  As 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ long as your you are still called chosen, as long as the priesthood still endures, as it is said (I Sam. 2: 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ 28): “And I did choose him from all the tribes of Israel to be My priest”; as long as the covenant of the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Levites still endures, as it is said (Deut. 18:5): “For the Lord your God has chosen him out of all your 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ tribes”; as long as the kingdom of the House of David still endures, as it is said (Ps. 78:70): “And He 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ chose His servant David”; as long as Jerusalem still endures, as it is said (I Kings 11:32): “the city that 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ I have chosen”; as long as the chosen Temple still endures, about which it is stated (II Chron. 7: 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ 16): “And now I have chosen and consecrated this House”; as long as you still endure, as it is said 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ (Deut. 7:6): “the Lord your God has chosen you.” \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ before the days of evil come\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  These are the days of 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ the exile. [2] \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ Before the sun...darken\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  This is the kingdom of the House of David of which it is written 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ (Ps. 89:37): “And his throne is like the sun before Me.” \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ and the light\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  This is the Torah, as it is said 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ (Prov. 6:23): “For a commandment is a candle and the Torah is light.” \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ and the moon\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  This refers to the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Sanhedrin, of which we learned (Sanh. 4:3): “The seating of the Sanhedrin was in the shape of a semi- 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ circular threshing floor.” \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ and the stars\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  These are the Rabbis, as it is said (Dan. 12:3): “and those who 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ bring the multitudes to righteousness are like the stars.” \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ and the clouds return after the rain\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  calamity 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ after harsh calamity. You find concerning all the harsh prophecies that Jeremiah prophesied about 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ them, that they befell them only after the destruction of the Temple. [3] \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ On the day that the keepers 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ of the house tremble\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  This refers to the watches of the priests and the Levites. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ and the mighty men 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ are seized by cramps\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  These are the priests, who are mighty in strength. Said Rabbi Abba bar Kahana: 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Aaron lifted twenty-two thousand Levites in one day. Said Rabbi Hanina: The bird’s crop is a light 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ thing, yet the priest would throw it more than thirty cubits. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ and the grinders cease\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  These are the great 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ collections of Mishnah: the Mishnah of Rabbi Akiva, the Mishnah of Rabbi Hiyya, and the Mishnah of 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Bar Kappara. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ and those who look...become darkened\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  that the Talmud will be forgotten from the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ heart. [4] \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ And the doors are shut in the street\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  for example, the doors of Nehushta the son (read: the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ daughter) of Elnathan, which were wide open. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ when the sound of the mill is low\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  because they did not 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ engage in the words of Torah. Said Rabbi Samuel: Israel is compared to the grinding of the millstones; 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ just as the millstones are idle neither by day nor by night, here too, (Josh. 1:8): “you shall meditate 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ therein day and night.” \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ and one rises at the voice of a bird\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  This is the wicked Nebuchadnezzar. 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Rabbi Levi said: For eighteen years a heavenly voice went forth and in Nebuchadnezzar’s palace and 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ proclaimed: “Wicked slave, go and destroy your Master’s House because His children disobey 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Him.” \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ and all the songstresses are brought low\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  (Isa. 24:9): “In song, they shall not drink wine.” [5] 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ Also from the Most High they fear\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  He was afraid of He Who is Supreme in the universe, and his 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ heart was concerned lest He do to him as He did to his predecessors. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ and terrors on the road 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Because of this, he will seek omens and portents [to see if] he will succeed on the way that he will go, 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ as it is stated (Ezek. 21:26): “For the king of Babylon stood at the crossroads, to divine; he furbished 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ the arrows, he inquired of the teraphim.” \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ and the almond tree will blossom\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  Jeremiah’s prophecy will 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ grow, as it is said (Jer. 1:11): “I see the rod of an almond tree.” Said Rabbi Eliezer: This almond tree, 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ from the time it blossoms until its fruits are ripe, are twenty-one days. Likewise, from the seventeenth 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ of Tammuz until the ninth of Av are twenty-one days. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ and the grasshopper will drag itself along 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ This is Nebuchadnezzar’s image (Dan. 3:1): “its height sixty cubits, its width six cubits.” Now, if its 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ thickness is not six, it cannot stand, and you say that, “he set it up in the plain of Dura”? Said Rav 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Beivai: They set it up and it fell; they set it up and it fell, until they brought all the gold in Jerusalem 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ and poured it out as a base on its feet, to fulfill what is stated (Ezek. 7:19): “and their gold will be 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ repugnant.” \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ and the avionah fails\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  This is the ancestral merit; the support of your Patriarchs will fail; 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ accordingly, \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ àÂáÄéåÉðÈä\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  is derived from \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ àÈá\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ , father. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ for man goes\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  Israel, who were called (Ezek. 36: 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ 37) “men like a flock of sheep”; (ibid. 34:31) “you are men.” \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ to his everlasting home\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  They came 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ from Babylon, and they returned to Babylon. Terah, the father of Abraham, was from the other side of 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ the river [Euphrates]. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ and the mourners go about in the street\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  The exile of Jeconiah preceded the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ exile of Zedekiah by eleven years. When Nebuchadnezzar exiled the exile of Zedekiah in neck irons, 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ the exile of Jeconiah came out toward Nebuchadnezzar against their will, with the rest of the city 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ dwellers, to praise him, that he was a hero and a victor, and they would see the captives and ask them, 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ each one about his kinsman, what happened to him, and they would answer them, (Jer. 15:2): “Such as 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ are for death to death, and such as are for captivity to captivity, and such as are for the sword to the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ sword.” And they would praise with one hand, and with their other hand, they would clap their hands 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ and beat their sides in mourning for their brothers and for their children. [6] \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ before the silver cord 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ snaps\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  This is the genealogical chain. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ and the golden fountain is shattered\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  These are the words of 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Torah, as it is said (Ps. 19:11) “They are to be desired more than gold.” \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ and the pitcher breaks at the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ fountain\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  The pitcher of Baruch the son of Neriah on the fountain of Jeremiah. They were both exiled 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ to Babylon and stopped their studies because of the hardship of the journey. At first, they were exiled 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ to Egypt, for Johanan the son of Kareah exiled them, and when Nebuchadnezzar destroyed Egypt, he 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ exiled them to Babylon. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ and the wheel falls shattered into the pit\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  This is Babylon, which is the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ depository of the world.  
\par \par }

