{\rtf1\ansi\deftab720\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f3\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fcharset1 Arial;}{\f5\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f6\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f7\fcharset1 Davidd;}{\f50\fcharset1 Davidd;}}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red192\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green0\blue160;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue0;}
\deflang1033\pard\par\plain\par\ql \par\ql \lang1033\ltrch\f6\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf6\cb14\ 11\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ The words of the wise\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  They made a fence for the Torah with decrees to distance a person from 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ sin, e.g., eating hallowed things until dawn, and they said “Until midnight,” and likewise, the evening 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ recitation of the Shema [which the Sages limit to midnight]. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ are like goads\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  Just as this goad directs the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ cow to its furrows, so do their words direct a person to the ways of life. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ and like well-fastened nails 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Just as this nail is fastened, so are their words fastened [i.e., permanent], and just as a sapling \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ (ğÀèÄéòÈä) 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ is fruitful and multiplies, so are their words fruitful and multiply, to find for them a reason. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ with large 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ heads\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  Heb. \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ àÂñËôÌåÉú\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ , nails that have a large and thick head, grosse in French, large. So did Dunash the son 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ of Labrat explain it (Teshuvoth Dunash, p. 44). \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ given from one shepherd\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  All their words are the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ words of the living God. He said them, and one shepherd gave them, viz. Moses from God. \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ åÌëÀîÇùÒÀîÀøåÉú 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ This is written with a “sin,” for the Torah (Tenach), with the twenty-four books coincide with the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ number of the watches \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ (îÄùÑÀîÈøåÉú)\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  of the priests and the Levites.  
\par \par }

