{\rtf1\ansi\deftab720\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f3\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fcharset1 Arial;}{\f5\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f6\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f7\fcharset1 Davidd;}}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red192\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green0\blue160;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue0;}
\deflang1033\pard\par\plain\par\ql \par\ql \lang1033\ltrch\f6\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf6\cb14\ 18\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ And a stone was brought\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  lit. and one stone was brought. Throughout the entire land of Babylon 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ there are no stones but bricks, as it is written: (Gen 11:3): “Let us make bricks.” We learn that there 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ are no stones in Babylon, but for the occasion, angels brought it [a stone] from the land of Israel. If 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ God stipulated with the Creation on the sea that it should split for the Children of Israel, and on the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ fire that it cool off for Hananiah and his colleagues, and on the lions that they should not hurt Daniel, 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ He did not stipulate about casting stones or weapons that they should not hurt any man. So the king 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ said, “From the lions I cannot take him away. I shall be careful with him that no man hurt him, and if 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ the miracle comes, let it come.” This does not appear in some editions. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ and placed on the mouth of 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ the pit\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  [as translated,] and placed on the mouth of the pit. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ with his signet ring\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  with his signet ring so 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ that no one could move it from its place and cast stones upon him to kill him. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ that his will about 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ Daniel not be altered\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  so that his will should not be changed; i.e., so that they should not harm him 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ against his [the king’s] will.  
\par \par }

