{\rtf1\ansi\deftab720\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f3\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fcharset1 Arial;}{\f5\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f6\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f7\fcharset1 Davidd;}{\f50\fcharset1 Davidd;}}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red192\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green0\blue160;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue0;}
\deflang1033\pard\par\plain\par\ql \par\ql \lang1033\ltrch\f6\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf6\cb14\ 25\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ against the Most High\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  [as translated,] against the Most High. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ and he will oppress the high holy 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ ones\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  He will burden and oppress Israel. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ and he will think to change the times and the law\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  He will 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ plan in his heart to cause them to transgress all their appointed times and their laws. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ until a time, two 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ times, and half a time\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  This is an obscure end, as was said to Daniel (12:4): “And you, Daniel, close up 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ the words and seal,” and the early commentators expounded on it, each one according to his view, and 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ the ends have passed. We can still interpret it as I saw written in the name of Rav Saadia Gaon, that 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ they are the 1,335 years stated at the end of the Book (12:12): “Fortunate is he who waits [and 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ reaches the days one thousand three hundred and thirty-five],” and he explains the appointed time as 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ until the time of two times and a half time, and he [Rav Saadia Gaon] said that the times are 480 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ [years], which is the time from the Exodus from Egypt until the Temple was built, and 410 [years], 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ [which are] the days of the First Temple, totaling 890, and another half of this time, 445, totaling 1, 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ 335. Figure these from the time the daily sacrifice was discontinued until the daily sacrifice will be 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ restored to its place; it was discontinued six years prior to the destruction, and there is somewhat of a 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ proof in this Book. [See Rashi to 8:14.] Others bring further proof to this computation, namely that 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ (Deut. 31:18): “And I, will hide My face” [the words] \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ äÇñÀúÌÅø àÇñÀúÌÄéø\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  add up in gematria to 1,335.  
\par \par }

