{\rtf1\ansi\deftab720\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f3\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fcharset1 Arial;}{\f5\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f6\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f7\fcharset1 Davidd;}{\f50\fcharset1 Davidd;}}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red192\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green0\blue160;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue0;}
\deflang1033\pard\par\plain\par\ql \par\ql \lang1033\ltrch\f6\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf6\cb14\ 14\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ Until evening and morning, one thousand and three hundred\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  I saw an interpretation in the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ name of Rav Saadia Gaon for this matter, but it has already passed, and he interpreted further “until 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ evening and morning,” that evening about which it says (Zech. 14:7): “and it shall come to pass that at 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ eventide it shall be light,” and we are confident that our God’s word will stand forever; it will not be 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ nullified. I say, however, that the \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ òÆøÆá\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  and \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ áÌÉ÷Æø\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  stated here are a gematria, and there is support for this 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ matter from two reasons: 1) that this computation should coincide with the other computation at the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ end of the Book, and 2) that Gabriel said to Daniel later on in this chapter (verse 26): “And the vision 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ of the evening and the morning is true.” Now, if he had not hinted that the computation was doubtful, 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ why did he repeat it to say that it was true? And the seer was commanded to close up and to seal the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ matter, and to him, too, the matter was revealed in a closed and sealed expression, but we will hope 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ for the promise of our king for end after end, and when the end passes, it will be known that the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ expounder has erred in his interpretation, and the one who comes after him will search and expound in 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ another manner. This can be interpreted [as follows]: namely, that \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ òÆøÆá áÌÉ÷Æø\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  has the numerical value of 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ 574, \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ ò\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  = 70; \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ ø\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  = 200; \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ á\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  = 2; \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ á\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  = 2; \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ ÷\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  = 100; \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ ø\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  = 200. Added together, this equals 574; plus 2,300, we 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ have 2,874. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ and the holy ones shall be exonerated\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  The iniquity of Israel shall be expiated to bring an 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ end to the decrees of their being trodden upon and crumbled since they were exiled in their first exile 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ to Egypt, until they will be redeemed and saved with a perpetual salvation by our king Messiah, and 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ this computation terminates at the end of 1,290 years from the day the daily sacrifice was removed, 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ and that is what is stated at the end of the Book (12:11): “And from the time the daily sacrifice is 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ removed, and the silent abomination placed, will be 1,290 years,” and no more, for our king Messiah 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ will come and remove the silent abomination. The daily sacrifice was removed six years before the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ destruction of the Second Temple, and an image was set up in the Heichal. Now that was the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ seventeenth day of Tammuz, when Apostomos burned the Torah, put an end to the daily sacrifice, and 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ set up an image in the Heichal, as we learned in Tractate Ta’anith (26b), but for the six years that I 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ mentioned, I have no explicit proof, but there is proof that the daily sacrifice was abolished less than a 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ complete shemittah cycle before the destruction, for so did Daniel prophesy about Titus (9:27): “...and 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ half the week of years [shemittah cycle] he will curtail sacrifice and meal-offering,” meaning that a 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ part of the week of years before the destruction, sacrifices will be abolished. So it is explained below 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ in this section. Let us return to the earlier matters, how the computation of “evening and morning, two 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ thousand and three hundred,” fits exactly with the time commencing from the descent to Egypt to 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ terminate at the end of 1,290 years until the day that the daily sacrifice was abolished: 210 years they 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ were in Egypt. 480 years transpired from the Exodus until the building of the Temple. 410 years the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Temple existed. 70 years was the Babylonian exile. 420 years the Second Temple stood. 1,290 should 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ be added until the end of days, totaling: 2,880. Subtract six years that the daily sacrifice was removed 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ before the destruction, for Scripture counted 1,290 years only from the time that the daily sacrifice 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ was removed. Here you have the computation of “evening and morning, and 2,300” added to the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ computation. Fortunate is he who waits and reaches the end of days 45 years over 1,290 [years]. We 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ may say that the king Messiah will come according to the first computation, and he will subsequently 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ be concealed from them for forty-five years. Rabbi Elazar HaKalir established (in the concluding 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ poem of the portion dealing with the month of Nissan): in the foundation of his song: six weeks of 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ years, totaling 42. We may say that the three years that did not total a week of years he did not count. 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ And I found it so in Midrash Ruth that the king Messiah is destined to be concealed for forty-five 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ years after he reveals himself, and proof is brought from these verses.  
\par \par }

