{\rtf1\ansi\deftab720\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f3\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fcharset1 Arial;}{\f5\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f6\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f7\fcharset1 Davidd;}{\f50\fcharset1 Davidd;}}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red192\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green0\blue160;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue0;}
\deflang1033\pard\par\plain\par\ql \par\ql \lang1033\ltrch\f6\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf6\cb14\ 25\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ And you shall know and understand from the emergence of the word\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  From the emergence of 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ this word, which emerged at the beginning of your supplications to tell you, you shall know to 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ understand [how] to restore and build Jerusalem. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ until the anointed king\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  Time will be given from the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ day of the destruction until the coming of Cyrus, king of Persia, about whom the Holy One, blessed be 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ He, said that he would return and build His city, and He called him His anointed and His king, as it 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ says (Isa. 45:1): “So said the Lord to His anointed one, to Cyrus etc.” (verse 13): “He shall build My 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ city and free My exiles, etc.” \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ seven weeks\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  Seven complete shemittah cycles they will be in exile 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ before Cyrus comes, and there were yet three more years, but since they did not constitute a complete 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ shemittah cycle, they were not counted. In the one year of Darius, in which Daniel was standing when 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ this vision was said to him, seventy years from the conquest of Jehoiakim terminated. Deduct eighteen 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ years from them, in which the conquest of Jehoiakim preceded the destruction of Jerusalem, leaving 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ fifty-two years. This is what our Rabbis learned (Yoma 54a): “For fifty-two years no one passed 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ through Judea.” They are the fifty-two years from the day of the destruction until they returned in the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ days of Cyrus. Hence, we have seven shemittah cycles and three years. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ and in sixty-two weeks it will 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ return and be built\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  i.e., the city with its streets. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ and moat\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  Heb. \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ åÀçÈøåÌõ\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ . They are the moats that they 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ make around the wall to strengthen the city, which are called fosse in French, ditch or moat. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ but in 
\lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ troubled times\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  But in those times they will be troubled and distressed, for in the subjugation of the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ kings of Persia and the heathens, they will burden them with harsh bondage. Now although there are 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ sixty-two weeks and four years more that remain from the eighth week, whose beginning, viz. the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ three years, was included in the fifty-two years of the duration of the exile, those four years were not 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ counted here because here he counted only weeks, and you find that from the beginning he started to 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ count seventy weeks, and at the end, when he delineated their times and their judgments, he counted 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ only sixty-nine, proving that one week was divided, part of it here and part of it there; and he 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ mentioned only whole weeks. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ but in troubled times\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  They will be troubled in those times.  
\par \par }

