{\rtf1\ansi\deftab720\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f3\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fcharset1 Arial;}{\f5\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f6\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f7\fcharset1 Davidd;}{\f50\fcharset1 Davidd;}}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red192\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green0\blue160;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue0;}
\deflang1033\pard\par\plain\par\ql \par\ql \lang1033\ltrch\f6\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf6\cb14\ 8\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ Whoever smites the Jebusites and reaches the tower\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  Whosoever kills the Jebusites and is first to 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ capture the city. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ and the lame\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  and he also smites the lame and the blind and those despised by the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ soul, etc. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ wherefore they say\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  On (account of) that which they say, \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ The blind and the lame (etc.\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  So 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ long as the blind and the lame be here...he shall not, etc. \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ David shall not come hither.\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  This is an 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ incomplete verse for it states: “Whosoever smites the Jebusites and reaches the tower...” but fails to 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ specify what will be done unto him. In I Chron. (15:6), however, the explanation is 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ provided: “Whosoever smites the Jebusites first shall be chief and captain.” Similarly we 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ find; “Whosoever slays Cain...” (Gen 4:15) where it does not specify what will be done unto him. 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ However it can be understood in itself to be an expression of rebuke and chastisement. \lang1033\ltrch\f5\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ and reaches 
\lang1033\ltrch\f5\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ the tower \lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ öéðåø\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  is a term for the most elevated point of the tower, for it is there where they would 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ place their statues. In the days of David, the generations mentioned in the covenant had already 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ passed on.  
\par \par }

