{\rtf1\ansi\deftab720\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f3\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fcharset1 Arial;}{\f5\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f6\fcharset1 Times New Roman;}{\f7\fcharset1 Davidd;}}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red192\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green0\blue160;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue0;}
\deflang1033\pard\par\plain\par\ql \par\ql \lang1033\ltrch\f5\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf5\cb13\ Chronicles 1\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  
\par \lang1033\ltrch\f5\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf5\cb13\ Chapter 1\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  
\par \lang1033\ltrch\f6\fs40\b\i0\ul0\cf6\cb14\ 1\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ Adam, Seth, Enosh\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  Ezra wrote this book of genealogy through Haggai, Zechariah, and Malachi 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ during the eighteen years from the name that Zerubbabel and Joshua the Priest came to Jerusalem in 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ the days of Cyrus I until Cyrus the son of Esther came. All of this [book] is for the [purpose of tracing 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ the] lineage of King David and the Levites for gate sentries, guards, and singers, how David stationed 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ them in their positions, and the priests in their watches. Therefore, he traced their lineage from Adam 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ to Abraham, and since he had to trace Abraham’s lineage, he mentioned also the rest of the nations, 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ his sons and his grandsons, and because of his sons, he had to trace the lineage of the rest of the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ nations, the sons of Canaan, to let [us] know how Abraham inherited their land. And since he had to 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ mention and trace the lineage of the generations of Canaan, he mentioned together with them (the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ generations of) the rest of the nations, but he mentions them only briefly and casts them away until he 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ reaches the main ones, as is explained in \lang1033\ltrch\f3\fs30\b0\i\ul0\cf3\cb11\ Genesis Rabbah\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  (39:10) (See also \lang1033\ltrch\f3\fs30\b0\i\ul0\cf3\cb11\ Tanhuma Veyesheb\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  1). This can 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ be compared to a king who was traveling from place to place and dropped a pearl. The king stood and 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ sifted the sand with a sieve until he found the pearl. So said the Holy One, blessed be He, “Why 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ should I trace the lineage of Shem and Arpachshad and Terach except to find Abraham?” [As it is 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ written] (Neh. 9:8): “... and You found his heart faithful [before You].” And because of the honor of 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Isaac, he traced the lineage of the sons of Esau and Ishmael and the sons of Keturah, and he cast them 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ away little by little and left them. He mentions the sons of Seir because the sons of Esau inherited 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ them [i.e., their territory]; he also traces the lineage of Timna, who became a concubine to the seed of 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Abraham, to let us know the praise of Abraham, for she was the daughter of princes and chiefs and 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ wished to be a concubine to the seed of Abraham, as it is written (Gen. 36:22): “... and Lotan’s sister 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ was Timna,” and it is written (ibid. 12): “And Timna was a concubine to Eliphaz the son of 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ Esau,” because she said, “If I am not worthy to marry him, I shall be his concubine.” (\lang1033\ltrch\f3\fs30\b0\i\ul0\cf3\cb11\ Gen. Rabbah\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  84: 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ 14, \lang1033\ltrch\f3\fs30\b0\i\ul0\cf3\cb11\ Sanh.\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  99b) Moreover, for this reason, he traced the lineage of the sons of Seir because they were 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ chiefs and princes, and Mount Seir belonged to Seir, but out of love for Isaac, the Holy One, blessed 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ be He, gave it to Esau, as it is written (Deut. 2:12): “... and the children of Esau drove them out, etc., 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ and settled in their place,” and to inform us of the fulfillment of the words of the Holy One, blessed be 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ He, Who promised Isaac that He would multiply his seed and give him dominion over all, and because 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ of the honor of Isaac he likewise wrote (verse. 31): “Now these are the kings who reigned in the land 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ of Edom, etc.” \lang1033\ltrch\f2\fs36\b\i0\ul0\cf2\cb10\ Adam, Seth, Enosh\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\  This is to be interpreted like: “The sons of Adam: Seth, and the 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ sons of Seth: Enosh,” but since they were not the main part of the genealogy, he states them briefly, 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ and he does not mention Cain and Abel because they did not beget generations, but from Seth 
\lang1033\ltrch\f0\fs36\b0\i0\ul0\cf0\cb8\ emerged the generations of Noah and Abraham, and from Abraham to David.  
\par \par }

